~/89&/6"~,

~

'V
""

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

~

(/

~ ,~)~

' *,Jl

'A

~~

"

\~;:,

iF~ ~ORETHE

~
B
~lSCIPLl"I' RY

ARING COMMISSION
F THE
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
15 DHC 12

.~::::;
,"~

WAKE COUNTY

~"

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
v,

DAN L, MERRELL, Attorney,
Defendant

TI-IIS MATTER was heard December 16-17, 2015 before a hearing panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of RemlY W. Deese, Chair, Walter E.
Brock, Jr, and Bradley Lai!. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, was represented by
G. Patrick Murphy. Defendant appeared at the hearing and was represented by Phillip
Hayes. Based on the Complaint, Answer, stipulations, admissions, exhibits, evidence
admitted during the hearing, and with the consent of the Defendant, the Hearing Panel
hereby finds, by clear, cogent and convincing evidence, the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized nnder the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).

2.
Defendant, Dan L. Merrell ("Defendant" or "Merrell"), was admitted to
the NOlth Carolina State Bar in 1979 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attomey at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of
NOlth Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the NOlth Carolina State Bar and the Rules
of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or Palt of the relevallt periods refe11'ed to herein, Defendant was
engaged in the practice oflaw in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office
in Kitty Hawk, Dare Connty, NOlth Carolina.
4.
From Apri! 2010 through January 25, 2012, Defendant was tile attorney
for the ToWll of Kill Devil I-lills ("KDH").

5.
On or abol.1t April 6, 2010, Defendant met with KDH Town Manager
Debora Diaz ("Diaz"), KDH Assistant Town Manager Shawn Murphy ("Murphy"), KDH
Police Department ("KDHPD") Chief Gary Britt (,'Chief Britt"), and KDHPD Assistant
Chief Dana Harris ("Harris") to discuss an incident that took place on April 4, 2010
involving Sl.1perior Comt Judge Jerry Tillett's son and KDHPD officers.
6.
On April 15,2010, Defendant and KDH Town Officials Diaz, Chief Britt,
Harris and KDH Mayor Raymond Stmza met with Judge Tillett in Judge Tillett's judicial
chambers. Defendant arranged the meeting at Judge Tillett's request.
7.
Dwing the April 15, 2010 meeting, in response to statements made by
Judge Tillett, Chief Britt stated that he was not g()ing to be intimidated by Judge Tillett,
that he and KDHPD officers were going to continue to do the right thing, and that the law
applied to evel'),one.
8.
During the Spring and Summer of 2011, Defendant learned Judge Tillett
had received complaints from fOimer and current KDHPD officers making allegations
about Chief Britt's administration and management ofKDHPD.
9.
Judge Tillett told Defendant that he would be giving the complaints ofthe
former and current KDHPD officers to Dish'ict Attorney Frank Pan'ish ("PalTish") for
investigation.
10.
On September 19,2011, Judge Tillett issued an order sua sponte directing
that copies of personnel files of designated KDH employees, including those of Chief
Britt and Murphy, had to be delivered to his office.
11.
There was no petition or legal action pending before Judge Tillett when
Judge Tillett signed the September 19, 2011 order.
12.
Diaz, the Town Manager, was not notified of any proceedings related to
the September 19, 2011 order prior the Jndge Tillett entering the order.
13.
Defendant delivered the September 19, 2011 order to KDH Town officials
on September 20, 2011.
14.
Though MUlphy questioned Defendant about Judge Tillett's authority to
enter the order, Defendant advised MUlphy and KDH officials that the Town ofKDH had
no choice but to comply with Judge Tillett's September 19,2011 order.
15.
Defendant billed the Town of KDH $1,275.00 for the hours he spent
supervising the Town of KDH's cOl11pliance with Judge Tillett's September 19, 2010
order.
16.
On or about September 22, 2011, Pardsh sent Defendant a copy of all
wlsigned petition to remove Chief Britt.

-2-

17.
On or about September 22, 2011, Defendant met with Diaz and Murphy
and advised them that Chief Britt should be suspended pending the outcome of the
petition to remove Chief Britt.
On or about September 23, 2011, Chief Britt was placed on paid non18.
disciplina1y suspension.
19.
In or about October 2011, the NOlth Carolina League of Municipalities
assisted the Town ofKDH to arrange for an administrative review to be conducted of the
performance and leadership ofChiefBdtt and its impact on the operations ofKDHPD.
20.
Parrish told Defendant he wanted to wait on the completion of the
administrative review before moving fOlward with the petition to remove Chief Bdtt.
21.

The administrative review was completed in December 2011.

22.
On or about December 22, 201 I, Murphy sent town officials and
Defendant an email notifYing them that Chief Britt was being reinstated to active duty on
December 22, 20 I I .
23.
Murphy attached to his December 22, 2011 email a document captioned
"Police Issues For Implimentation (sic) By The Police Chief As Of January 2012" (issues
for implementation).
On or about December 30, 2011, Defendant sent a copy of Murphy's
24.
December 22,201 I email to Judge Tillett along with the issues for implementation.
25.
On January 19,2012, Superior Court Judge Milton F. Fitch, JI'. entered an
order styled "In the Matter of Complaints Against Officials of Kill Devil Hills Police
Department." The order was assigned Dare County file number 12-R-8.
26.
The Janumy 19, 2012 order rescinded provisions of the issues for
implementation, which Judge Fitch referred to in the order as "new policies", and
provided that "any Kill Devil Hills Department employee may present any complaint,
grievance or appeal involving the Police Department or conduct, disciplinary action or
employment to the Senior Resident Superior Comi Judge" at Judge Tillett's office
address, or as otherwise provided by law.
27.

Parrish never filed a petition to remove Chief Britt.

28.

On January 25, 2012, Defendant was replaced as attorney for the Town of

KDH.
On or about January 23, 2012, the Town of KDH filed an amended
29.
Petition for Writ of Supersedeas ("PWS") in the North Carolina Court of Appeals
("COA") seeking to vacate Judge Fitch's order in 12-R-8. The PWS was assigned COA
number PI2-72 ("COA PI2-72"). The Town of KDH was represented in the appeal of

-3-

Judge Fitch's order by Dan Hatizog and members of Hartzog's firm, Cranfill, Sumner &
Hatizog.
30,

Murphy provided an affidavit in support of the Town of KDH's amended

PWS.
31.
On or about January 31, 2012, Attorney Dennis Rose ("Rose") filed a
Motion to Intervene on behalf of several applicants in COA P 12-72. The individuals
seeking to intervene in COA P12-72 were individuals who had filed complaints
concerning Chief Britt with Judge Tillett.
32,
On or about January 31, 2012, while no longer attorney for the Town of
KDH, Defendant executed and provided an affidavit with attached exhibits to Rose.
Defendant's Januat·y 31, 2012 affidavit authenticated Murphy's email sent to various
KDH Town officials notifying them that Chief Britt was being reinstated to active dnty
on December 22, 2011, the document captioned "Police Issues For Implimentation (sic)
By The Police Chief As Of January 2012" which Murphy attached to the email, and a
December 29, 2011 email of Murphy.
33.
At the time Defendant provided his January 31, 2012 affidavit with
attached exhibits, Defendant knew his affidavit would be used to authenticate Murphy's
December 22 and December 29, 2011 emaiis and the issues for implementation to
support Rose's Motion to Intervene in COA PI2-72.
34.
Defendant did not request or obtain the informed consent of the Town of
KDH to disclose confidential information in his Januat-y 31, 2012 affidavit and attached
exhibits before submitting the January 31, 2012 affidavit and attached exhibits to Rose,
35.
The Town of KDH did not give Defendant permission to use confidential
information obtained from his representation of the Town of KDH in his Januat-y 31,
2012 affidavit and attached exhibits to the disadvantage of his former client.
36.
Defendant's Januat-y 31, 2012 affidavit and attached exhibi\s revealed
confidential information that Defendant acquired during his professional relationship
with the Town ofKDH.
37.
Confidential information revealed by Defendant's January 31, 2012
affidavit and attached exhibits includes:
a) information about the process ofre-instating Chief Britt; and
b) details about the issues for implementation.
38.
On February 13, 2012, the COA denied Rose's Motion to Intervene in
COA PI2-72.
39.
On February 13, 2012, the COA granted the Town of KDH's amended
PWS in COA PI2-72 to review Judge Fitch's order.

-4-

40.

On July 11,2012, Defendant executed and submitted a second affidavit to

Rose.
41.
Defendant's July 11, 2012 affidavit disclosed confidential information
acquired by Defendant dming his professional relationship serving as attorney for the
TownofKDH.
42.
At the time Defendant submitted his July 11,2012 affidavit to Rose, Rose
was representing the plaintiffs in Ennis v. Town of Kill Devil Hills, 12-CVS-74 (Dare
County). The plaintiffs in the civil action were the same individuals that had filed
complaints concerning Chief Britt with Judge Tillett and attempted to intervene in
COAI2-72.
43.
At the time Defendant submitted his July 11, 2012 affidavit, Defendant
knew the affidavit conld be used by Rose in litigation he was prosecuting against the
Town ofKDH in Ennis v. Town ofKill Devil Hills, 12-CVS-74 (Dare County).
44.
Defendant did not request or obtain the infonned consent of the Town of
KDH to reveal or use confidential information in his July 11, 2012 affidavit before
submitting the July 11, 2012 affidavit to Rose.
45.
The Town of KDH did not give consent to Defendant to use or reveal
confidential information obtained from his representation of the Town ofKDH in his July
11, 2012 affidavit to the disadvantage of his former client.
46.
Confidential information revealed by Defendant's July 11,2012 affidavit
includes the following:
a) persOllllel inf01111ation related to complaints about Chief Britt's alleged
mismanagement and improper administration of the KDHPD (~7);
b) Defendant's advice to town officials that Chief Britt should be suspended
pending the outcome of the petition to remove Chief Britt (~ ~ 8 and 9);
c) Mmphy's inquiry about whether Murphy should retain legal counsel
10);

(~

d) communications with the attorney hired by the NC League of
Municipalities to represent the Town ofKDH related to the administrative
review of the KDHPD (~ 11);
e) information Defendant received on behalf of his client fi'om Pan'ish related
to Parrish's intention to wait for the results of the administrative review
(~12);

f) the fact that Town of KDB officials did not consult with Defendant prior

to contacting the NC League of Mlll1icipalities about conducting au
administrative review of the Town ofKDHPD (~ 13);

- 5-

g) that Defendant was not consulted by anyone with the Town of KDH prior
to Chief Britt's return to active duty (~17);
h) that Defendant was not made aware of the "new policies" prior to
receiving a copy from Murphy attached to a December 22, 2011 email
(~18);

i) information abotlt the April 15,2010 meeting in Judge Tillett's chambers
in an effort to contradict statements in Mmphy's affidavit filed in support
of COA PI2-72 (~PI-30); and
j) Defelldant's opinion that Town of KDH officials were improperly

maintaining unofficial personnel files and copies of personnel files in the
custody of the police department administration (~33).
47.
On or about October 16, 2012, the N.C. Court of Appeals issued an
opinion in In The Matter of Complaints Against Officials of Kill Devil Hills Police
Department, COA 12-398, and vacated Judge Fitch's JanualY 19,2012 order.
On November 19, 2012, Defendant submitted an affidavit in SUppOlt of a
48.
Petition for Rehearing/Motion to Withdraw Opinion which Judge Tillett filed in In The
Matter of Complaints Against Officials of Kill Devil Hills Police Department, eOA 12398.
49.
Defendant's November 19, 2012 affidavit disclosed confidential
information acquired by Defendant during his professional relationship serving as
attorney for the Town ofKDH.
50.
At the time Defendant executed and submitted his November 19, 2012
affidavit, Defendant knew Judge Tillett was asking the eOA for a reheariug in eOA 12398 or, in the alternative, that the eOA withdraw its opinion which had ruled in favor of
the Town ofKDH and vacated Judge Fitch's order.
51.
Defendant did not request or obtain the informed consent of the Town of
KDH to reveal or use confidential information in his November 19,2012 affidavit before
submitting the November 19,2012 affidavit.
52.
The Town of KDH did not give Defendant permission to reveal or use
confidential information obtained during his representation of the Town of KDH in his
November 19, 2012 affidavit to the disadvantage of his former client.
53.
Confidential information revealed by Defendant's November 19, 2012
affidavit includes the following:
a) events dming the April 15,2010 meeting in Judge Tillett's chambers to
support the petition for rehearing and to contradict statements in Murphy's
affidavit filed in SUppOlt of the Town ofKDH's PWS (~~ 2-10);

- 6-

b) information Defendant obtained about alleged complaints against Chief
Britt received during the time he served as Town attorney (~I 1);
c) that paragraph 7 of Murphy's affidavit was "not factually correct" in an
attempt to establish that Murphy had provided incol1'ect information in
support of the Town ofKDH's PWS (~12);
d) Defendant's legal reasoning for actions taken by Defendant that impacted
the Town ofKDI-I (~~ 13, 14 and 16);
e) communications with the Town Clerk (~ 15);
1) communications Defendant had with town officials

(n 17-19);

g) Defendant's advice to town officials that Chief Britt should be suspended
pending the outcome of the petition to remove Chief Britt (~21);
h) communications with the attorney hired by the NC League of
Municipalities related to the administrative review (~ 22);
i) that town officials did not consult with Defendant prior to contacting the
NC League of Municipalities (~24);
j) that Defendant was not consulted by anyone with the Town of KDH prior
to Chief Britt's return to active duty (~28);
k) that Defendant was not consulted on the "new policies" prior to receiving
a copy fj'01n Murphy attached to a December 22, 2011 email (~29); and
I) that Defendant was not contacted about the Town of KDH's PWS to
vacate Judge Fitch's order, and indicating the Town's PWS was not based
on the "hue facts of these matters" (~30).
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All pmties an~ properly before the Hearing Panel and the panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of tlus proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pm-suant to N.C, Gen. Stat. §§ 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a. By executing and submitting his January 31,2012 affidavit to Rose,
Defendant revealed confidential infOlmation acquired through his
professional relationship with the Town ofKDH without the informed
consent of the Town ofKDH in violation of Rule 1.6, revealed
confidential information relating to his representation of the Town of
KDH in violation of Rule 1.9(c)(2), and used confidential infol1nation

-7-

relating to his representation of the Town ofKDH to the disadvantage of
his former client in violation of Rule 1.9(c)(I);
b. By executing and submitting his July 11, 2012 &ffidavit to Rose,
Defendant revealed confidential infOlmation acquired through his
professional relationship with the Town ofKDH without the informed
consent of the Town ofKDH in violation of Rille 1.6, revealed
confidential information relating to his representation of the Town of
KDH in violation of Rule 1.9(c)(2), and used confidential infol1nation
relating to his representation oftlle Town ofKDH to the disadvantage of
his former client in violation of Rule 1.9(c)(I); and
c. By executing and submitting his November 19, 2012 affidavit to be used
in Judge Tillett's Petition for Rehearing/Motion to Withdraw Opinion,
Defendant revealed confidential information acquired through his
professional relationship with the Town of KDH without the informed
consent of the Town of KDH in violation of Rule 1.6, revealed
confidential information relating to his representation of the Town of
KDH in violation of Rule 1.9(c)(2), and used confidential infonnation
relating to his representation of the Town of KDH to the disadvantage of
his former client in violation of Rule 1.9(c)(l).
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant was licensed to practice law in the State of North Carolina in
1979 and has substantial experience in the practice oflaw.
2.

Defendant has refused to acknowledge the wrongftllness of his conduct.

3.
Defendant revealed and used confidential information of his fonner client
in three separate affidavits over an eleven- month period.
4.
Defendant's July II and November 19, 2012 affidavits reveal detailed
confidential information including conversations he had with Town ofKDH officials on
legal matters, legal advice and opinions he provided his former client and
commuuications he had with third parties related to legal issues and/or potential legal
issues involving his fonner client.

5.
Defendant's July II and November 19,2012 affidavits reveal confidential
infOlmation acquired through his professional relationship with the Town ofKDH over a
twenty-month period oftime
6.
Defendant provided the three affidavits for use in litigation against his
former client in three separate proceeding, the last of which sought to have the Court of
Appeal grant extraordinary relief in the fOlm of granting a rehearing in In The Matter of
Complaints Against Officials of Kill Devil Hills Police Department, COA 12-398 or, in
the alternative, withdrawing the opinion.

- 8-

7.
Defendant's affidavit that was filed in the COUlt of Appeals to SUppOlt
Judge Tillett's petition for rehearing andlor alternative motion to withdraw its opinion
was also used in SUppOlt of Judge Tillett's Petition for Discretionary Review !lnd Petition
for Writ of Certiorari filed in the NOlih Carolina Supreme COUlt in In The Matter of
Complaints Agail1st Officials ofKill Devil Hills Police Department, No. 531P12. These
filings required attomeys representing the Town ofKDH to expend additional resources
to respond to these petitions and motion.
8.
Defendant has prior discipline in the form of a two-year st!lyed suspension
in The North Carolina State Bar v. Dan L. Merrell, 12 DHC 13.
Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe f!lctors
enumemted in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OlI4(w)(3) of the RuJes and Regulations ofthe North
Carolina State Bar and determines the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a.

Prior disciplinary offenses in this state;

b.

A pattern of misconduct;

c.

Defendant's refusal to acknowledge the wrongful nature of his conduct;
and

d.

Defendant has substantial experience in the practice of law.

2.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumemted
in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .OI14(w)(l) of the Rules and ReguJations of the North Carolina
State Bar and determines the following factors which wan'ant suspension of Defendant's
license are applicable to this matter:
a.

The intent ofthe Defendant to commit acts where the harm or potential
h!lrm is foreseeable;

b.

The negative impact of Defendant's actions on his client's 01' the public's
perception of the legal profession;

c.

Negative impact of the Defendant's actions on the administmtion of
justice; and

d.

Impairment of his client's ability to achieve the goals ofthe
representation.

3.

The Hearing Panel has also considered all of the factors enumerated in 27

-9-

N.C.A.C. 1B § .01 14(w)(2) ofthe Rules and Regulations ofthe NOlth Carolina State Bar
and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
4.
The Hearing Panel has considered written discipline but finds that an
admonition, reprimand, 01' censure would not be sufficient disciplilw because of the harm
and potential harm to the client and the public as demonstrated by the facts in the present
case. Furthermore, the panel finds that any sanction less than a suspension would fail to
acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by Defendant and would send the
wrong message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of
the Bar in this State. The Hearing Panel finds, however, that the public will be
adequately protected by a stayed suspension under the facts and ci1-cumstances of the
present case.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions Regarding Discipline the Hearing Panel enters the
following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant is hereby suspended from the practice of law in the State of
NOlth Carolina for four (4) years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon
Defendant.
2.
The four (4) year suspension is stayed for four (4) years as long as
Defendant complies with the following conditions:
a.

D\lfendant shall accept all celtified mail fi·om the North Carolina State Bar
and respond to all requests for information or communications from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated in the communication;

b.

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar membership
depmtment advised of his current physical business address (not a Post
Office box), telephone number, and email address and shall notify the Bar
of any changes in address within ten (10) days of such change;

c.

Defendant will timely comply with State Bar continning legal education
("CLE") requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;

d.

Defendant will not violate the laws of any state or the United States;

e.

Defendant will not violate any provision of the Rules of Professional
Conduct;

f.

Defendant shall complete three (3) hours of CLE in the area of ethics each
of the four years of the stayed suspension and shall provide written proof
of the successfill completion of those courses to the Office of Counsel

- 10-

within 10 days of completing each course. These CLE requirements are in
addition to the CLE requirements set out in 27 N,C,AC, 1D § .1518;
g,

Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs of this disciplinary
proceeding within one (1) year of service of the statement of fees and
costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar; and

h,

Defendant shall not represent any public bodies during the term of the
stayed suspension.

3,
If Defendant fails to comply with anyone or more of the conditions stated
above, then the stay of the suspension of his law license may be lifted as provided in §
.OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules, and the DHC
may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems proper for the reinstatement of
Defendant's license at the end of the suspension,
4,
Unless Defe!idant's obligations under this Order are modified by further
order of the DHC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end four (4) years ii'om the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings
pending alleging lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension and
Defendant has provided an affidavit with supporting documentation to the Office of
Counsel not less than 60 days prior to the expiration of this suspension demonstrating that
he has complied with all of the conditions of the suspension, Pursuant to § .01l4(x) of
the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DHC retains jurisdiction lmtil all
conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion or show cause
proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the suspension
is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would othelwise have
terminated, the DHC retains jurisdiction and the ability to lift the stay of the suspension
and activate the four (4) year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of the
conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue llntil resolution of any
such pending motion or show cause proceeding.
5.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the DHC may enter an order imposing such conditions as it deems proper for
the reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension. Additionally,
Defendaut must establish the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence prior to
being reinstated to the practice oflaw after any period of active suspension:
a.

Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the
Secretary of the State Bar within thirty days of the date of the order lifting
the stay andlor activating the suspension of his law license;

b.

Defendant complied with the provisions of27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0124 ofthe
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules following entry oflhe order
lifting the stay andlor activating the suspension ofhis law license;

- 11 -

c.

Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against
him in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs served upon
him by the Secretary of the State Bar;

d.

That within 15 days of the effective date of the order activating the
suspension Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and
telephone number at which clients seeking retum of files can communicate
with Defendant and obtain such files;

e,

That Defendant promptly provided client files to all clients who made a
request for return of their files;
.

f.

That Defendant has kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of
his current business and home street addresses (not post office box or
drawet addresses) and notified the State Bar of any change in address
within ten days of such change;

g.

That Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications from the Attorney Client Assistance Program,
within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;

h.

That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant is current in
payment of all membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client .
Security Fund assessments, and other charges or snrcharges the State Bar
is wthorized to collect fi'om him, including alljndicial district dues and
assessments;

i.

That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendant's completion of mandatory CLE hours in reporting of such
hours or in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE
progrmns;

J.

That at the time of his petition for reinstatement, Defendant has completed
the additional 3 hours per year of CLE in the area of ethics as required in
paragraph 2 (f) above;

k.

That Defendant has not represented any public bodies during the term of
the stayed suspension; and

I.

Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws
ofthe United States, or the laws of any state or local goverrnnent during
his suspension.

- 12-

6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension are satisfied.

I/

~gned

day of

by t e Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
,2016.

RemlY w,. eese, Chair
Discipli ry Hearing Panel

- 13 -

