- - - - - - - - -

~~~~

..

~~-~-.-----------~--------~~-.----~~~-~~~~~-~~---

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

BEFORE THE
INARY HEARING COMMISSION

WAKE COUNTY

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
CONSENT ORDER
OF
DISClPLINE

v.
MARLON BRENT MESSER, Attomey,
Defendant

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ' - - - - _ . - . _ - - - - - _..-

This matter was considered by a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Irvin W_ Hankins, III, and Bradley Lail, pursuant to
NOlth Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § _0114(h). Margaret
Cloutier and Joshua Walthall represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant
Marlon B. Messer was represented by F. Lane Williamson of Charlotte. Defendant waives a
formal hearing in the above referenced matter. The parties stipulate and agree to the findings of
fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent order. The parties consent to the discipline
imposed by tllis order. Defendant Imowingly, fi'eely and voluntarily waives his right to appeal
this consent order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings by consenting to
entry of this order.
Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("NOlt!J Carolina State Bal-" or "State
Bar"), is a body duly orgmlized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring
this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statntes of North
Carolina, and the JUles and regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2_
Defendant, Marlon Brent Messer ("Messer" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the
North Cal-olina State Bar in 2004, alld is, alld was at all times referred to herein, an attomey at

law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State ofNOlih Carolina, the
Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the North Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
4.
California.

Defendant is also a licensed attorney in Texas and California.
At all times relevant to this complaint, Defendant maintained an address

ill

5.
On July 9, 20l3, Defendant, at the instruction and direction of Brent Phillips
("Phillips"), a California attorney, executed a "Certificate of FOlmation" to incorporate a
professional corporation named "Legal Help Group, APC," ("LHG") in Texas.
6.
Defendant nominally served as the president and sole ownel' of LHG throughout
the cOl'pOl'ation's existence.
7.
Phillips served as the beneficial owner of LHG, receiving the majority of the
profits made by LHG; making all decisions regarding the direction and actions of the company;
supervising the day-to-day operations of LHG; and hitjng, fujng, and SlJpervising all of LHG's
employees.
8.
LHG advertised via a website (www.lhgadvisors.com) as able to provide citizens
of North Carolina, Texas, Arizona, Virginia, Maryland, and Florida with a variety of legal
services including loan modification and foreclosure defense representation.
9.
LHG held out on its website and in its contracts with customers that it was a
North Carolina law firm and that it had law offices in California, Arizona and North Carolina,
although the corporation was only registered in Texas and had only a virtual office space in
North Carolina.
10.
From July 2013 to November 2014, LHG provided legal services to 103 Florida
residents, seventeen North Carolina residents, forty-one Virginia residents, five Texas residents,
and eight Maryland residents.

01'

I I.
Defendant is not authorized to provide legal services in Florida, Virginia, Arizona
Maryland.

12.
LHG is not authorized to provide legal services in North Carolina, Florida,
Virginia, Arizona, or Maryland.
13.
At the inslTUction and direction of Phillips, Defendant executed a "declaration,"
drafted by Phillips, on August 19, 2014 wherein Defendant stated that he "was personally
responsible for representing Legal Help Group's clients in the state of North Carolina."

Page 2 of1S

R.J.E. of Raleigh, North Carolina
14.
In or around March 2014, LHG sent RI.E., a resident of Raleigh, North Carolina,
an lmsolicited flyer tilat stated that RJ.E. was eligible to have his monthly mortgage interest rate
reduced. This flyer did not include a disclaimer that it was an advertisement for legal services.
15.
R.lE. reS1Jonded to the flyer by visiting LHG's website and calling the nnmber on
the advertisement in an effort to obtain help in lowering his monthly mOltgage payment and
interest rate.
16.
LHG guaranteed RlE. that he would be approved for a mortgage reduction and
that his payments would be lowered by $579.00 per month and tilat his interest rate would be
reduced to 3% within ninety days.
17.
On March 18, 2014, LHG contracted to provide R.lE. with legal representation in
obtaining a loan modification of his home mOltgage.
18.
LHG charged and collected approximately $5,000.00 fi'om R.lE. to negotiate
with his lender and obtain a loan modification and payment rednction on his behalf.
19.
After contracting with LHG for legal representation, R.lE. received emails and
legal advice from various employees ofLHG, though none of these employees were attorneys.
20.
In nearly ail of the communications sent to RJ.E., LHG held itself out as a law
film able to provide legal services in North Carolina.
21.
Nonattomey employees at LHG gave RJ.E. legal advice on completing and
drafting various fOlms and documents that LHG was to then sublnit to R.lE.'s lender in an
attempt to obtain a loan modification on his behalf.
22.
RlE. never spoke with an attorney, and all services provided to R.J.E. were
provided by nonattorneys.
23.
From April 1,2014 to J'tme 10,2014, RJ.E. made numerous attempts to contact
various employees at LBG by phone and email but received no responses or answers to his
questions.
On June 10,2014, R.J.E. demanded that LBG resolve the matter in two weeks or
24.
return his money.
25.
In response to R.J.E.'s June 10, 2014 demand, Judy Plovie, a nonattorney
employee at LHG, stated to R.J.E. that she had already begun negotiating with R.J.E.'s lender
regarding his mortgage modification but that she needed additional information to complete the
process.
26.
After approximately three months of receiving no beneficial assistance from
LHG, RJ.E. terminated his relationship with LHG.

Page 3 of 15

27.

LHG did not refund any of the fees it collected from R.lE.
S.T. of Hubert, North Carolina

28.
In March of 2014, LHG sent S.T., a resident of Hubert, North Carolina, an
unsolicited flyer that stated that S.T. was eligible to have her monthly mortgage interest rate
reduced. This tIyer did not inclnde a disclaimeT that it was an advertisement for legal services.
29.
S.T. responded to the flyer by visiting LHG's website and calling the number on
the advertisement in an effort to obtain help in lowering her monthly lUOltgage payment and
interest rate.
30.
LHG !"lJaranteed S.T. that she would be approved for a mortgage reduction and
that S. T.' s interest rate would be reduced fi'om 9.9% to 2.9%.
On or around May 1,2014, LHG contracted with S.T. to provide S.T. with legal
31.
representation in obtaining a loan modification of S.T. 's home mortgage.
32.
LHG charged and collected approximately $6,000.00 from S.T. to negotiate with
S.T.'s lender and obtain a 10m1 modification and payment reduction on S.T.'s behalf.
33.
S.T. was current on her mOltgage at the time she contracted with LHG, but LHG
instructed S.T. to stop paying her monthly mortgage payments while LHG negotiated a reduced
interest rate with S.T.'s lender.

34.
Nonattomey employees at LHG gave S.T. legal advice on completing and
drafting vmious fOlIDS and documents that LHG was to then submit to S.T.'s lender in an attempt
to obtain a loan modificatio11 on S.T. 's behalf:
35.
After approximately six months of receiving no beneficial assistaJlce fimn LHG,
S.T. was informed that her mOltgage would not be modified in aJly way.

36.

LHG did not refund any ofthe fees it collected fTOm S.T.
J.T.S. of Holly Springs, North Carolina

37.
In or around March 2014, LHG sellt J.T.S., a resident of Holly Springs, North
Carolina, an tmsolicited flyer that stated that J.T.S. was eligible to have his monthly mortgage
interest rate reduced. This flyer did not include a disclaimer that it was an advertisement for
legal services.
J.T.S. responded to the flyer by visiting LHG's website aJld calling the number on
38.
the advertisement in aJl effort to obtain help in lowering his monthly mortgage payment and
interest rate.
39.
LHG guaranteed J.T.S. that IT:S. would be approved for a mortgage reduction
aJld that IT.So's mortgage interest rate would be reduced to 2% and that J.T.S.'s new mortgage
payment would be $983.40 per month.
Page 4 of15

40.
On or around April 3, 2014, LHG contractcd with J.T.S. to provide J.T.S. with
legal representation in obtaining a loan modification of lT .S.' s home mortgage.
41.
LHO collected approximately $3,800.00 from J.T.S. to negotiate with J.T.S.'s
mortgage lender and obtain a loan modification and payment reduction on J.T.S.'s behalf.
42.
IT.S. was ClUTent on his mOltgage at the time he enrolled with LHG, but LHG
instructed J.T.S. to stop paying his monthly mortgage payments while LHG negotiated a reduced
mortgage interest rate with J.T.S.'s mortgage lender.
43.
After contracting with LHO for legal representation, J.T.S. received emails and
legal advice from various employees ofLHG, though none of these employees were attorneys.
44.
h1 nearly all of the communications sent to IT.S., LHG held itself out as a law
firm able to provide legal services in North Carolina.
45.
Nonattorney employees at LHG gave J.T.S. legal advice on completing and
drafting various fOll11S and documents that LHG was to then submit to J.T.S. 's mortgage lender
in an attempt to obtain a loan modification.
46.
J.T.S. never spoke with an attomey, aud all services provided to J.T.S. were
provided by nonattomeys.

47.
From April 2014 to J1me 2014, J.T.S. made numerous attempts to contact various
employees at LHG by phone and email but nearly all of J.T.S.'s calls were not returned.
48.
On June 2, 2014, after approximately ten phone calls to LHG were unreturned,
IT.S. contacted his bank to stop payment on a check he had written to LHG.
49.
J.T.S. later leal'1led that his mortgage lender, Bank of America, had never heard
from LHG and that LHG had made no attempts to negotiate with Bank of America regarding a
modification of IT.S.'sm01tgage payments or rate.

50.
After approximately two months of receiving no beneficial assistance from LHO,
J.T.S. terminated his relationship withLHG.
51.

LHG did not refund any of the fees it collected from J.T.S.

S.M. of Matthews, North Carolina
52.
h1 or around March 2014, LEG sent S.M., a resident of Matthews, North
Carolina, an unsolicited flyer that stated that S.M. was eligible to have his monthly mOltgage
interest rate reduced. This flyer did not include a disclaimer that it was an advertisement for
legal services.
53.
S.M. responded to the flyer by visiting LHG's website and calling the number on
the adveltisement in an effort to obtain help in lowering his monthly mortgage payment and
interest rate.
Page 50n5

54.
LHG guaranteed to S.M. that they would lower his mortgage interest rate and
reduce S.M.'s monthly mOltgage payments by $255.34 within ninety days.
55.
Nonattomey employees guaranteed S.M. that S.M. qualified for a restructuring of
S.M.' s mortgage through the "Home Affonlability Act" and that there was no way S.M. could be
denied under federal law. These employees also promised S.M. that they woulcl lower the
principal amount ofS.M.'s loan.
56.
In or around February 2014, LHG contracted with S.M. to provide S.M. with legal
representation in obtaining a loan modification of S.M.' s home mortgage.
57.
LHG charged and collected approximately $2,995.00 from S.M. to negotiate with
S.M.' s lender and obtain a loan modification and payment reduction on S.M.' s behalf.
58.
Nonattomey employees at LHG gave S.M. legal advice on completing and
drafting various fOlTI1S and documents that LHG was to then submit to S.M.'s lender in an
attempt to obtain a loan modification on S.M.' s behalf.
59.
After seven months, LHG infOlmed S.M. that it would be unable to fulfill the
promises it made to S.M.
60.
S.M. then began complaining to LHG, filling out complaints and "resolution
depattment claim fonns."
61.
After submitting numerous complaints via phone, email, and form submissions,
S.M. finally reached Defendant for the first tinle. Defendant apologized on behalf of LHG and
paid S.M. a full refund out of Defendant's personal funds, not ont ofLHG's funds.

E.S. of Calabash, North Carolina
62.
In or around December 2014, LHG sent E.S., a resident of Calabash, NOlth
Cat'olina, an 1lllsoJicited flyer that stated that E.S. was eligible to have his monthly mOltgage
interest rate reduced. This tIyer did not inclnde a disclainler that it was an advertisement for
legal services.
63.
On JatlUary 16, 2015, E.S. responded to the flyer by calling the n11lnber on the
advertisement in atl effort to obtain help in lowering his monthly mortgage payment and interest
rate.
LHG told E.S. that they would lower E.S.'s mortgage interest rate and reduce
64.
E.S.'s monthly mOltgage payments.
65.
On or arOlmd January 26, 2015, LHG contracted with E.S. 10 provide E.S. with
legal representation in obtaining a loatl modification ofE.S.'s home mortgage.
66.
LHG charged and collected approximately $2,995.00 from E.S. to negotiate with
E.S.' slender atld obtain a lOatllllodification and payment reduction on E.s.' s behalf.

Page 6 of IS

67.
Nonattorney employees at LHG gave B.S. legal advice on completing and
drafting various forms and documents that LHG was to then submit to B.S.'s lender in an attempt
to obtain a loan modification on B.S.'s behalf.
68.
After approximately four months of receiving no beneficial assistance from LHG,
B.S. stopped paying LHG and sought legal help elsewhere.
69.

LHG did not refund any of the fees they collected from B.S.
C.F.D. of Emerald Isle, North Carolina

70.
In May 2014, LHG sent C.P.D., a resident of Emerald Isle, North Carolina, an
unsolicited tlyer that stated that C.P.D. was eligible to have his monthly mortgage interest rate
reduced. This flyer did not include a disclaimer that it was an advertisement for legal services.
71.
C.F.D. responded to the flyer by calling the number on tile adveltisement in an
effort to obtain help in lowering his monthly mortgage payment and interest rate.
72.
LHG held out to C.F.D. as able to lower C.F.D.'s mOltgage interest rate and
reduce C.FD.'s monthly mortgage payments.
In May 2014, LHG contracted with C.F.D. to provide C.F.D. with legal
73.
representation in obtaining a loan modification of C.F.D.'s home mOltgage.

74.
LHG charged and collected approximately $3,500.00 from C.F.D. to negotiate
with C.F.D. 's lender and obtain a loan modification and payment reduction on C.F.D.'s behalf.
75.
Nonattorney employees at LHG gave C.F.D. legal advice on completing and
drafting various forms and documents that LHG was to then submit to C.P.D.'s lender in an
attempt to obtain a loan modification on C.P.D.'s behalf.
76.
After approximately ten months of receiving no beneficial assistance from LHG,
LHG inf01111ed C.F.D. that LHG could not help C.F.D.
C.P.D.lrired anotller mortgage assistance company and received favorable results
77.
in thirty days.
78.

LHG did not refimd any ofthe fees they collected fj'om C.F.D.

D. and R.D. ofWilIiamsburg, Virginia
79.
On November 5, 2013, LHG contracted to provide two Virginia residents, D. and
K.D., with legal representation in obtaining a loan moclification of their home mOltgage.
80.
LHG charged and collected approximately $3,000.00 from D. and K.D. to
negotiate with their lender and obtain a loan modification and payment reduction on their behalf.
81.
law finn.

LHG sent D. and K.D. a contract that recited that the finn was a N01th Carolina
Page 7 oflS

82.
The contract required that all fee disputes with LHG be arbitrated by the Orange
County Bar Association in California and that any claims against LHG, including claims for
malpractice, also be arbitrated in California.
83.
LHG indicated to D. and KD. that the corporation would provide them with an
attorney licensed in their jurisdiction who would furnish them with all of the necessary legal
services to help them reduce their monthly payments and ohtain a loan modification on their
home mortgage.
84.
LHG gave a podion of the fee they collected from D. and K.D. to a Virginia
attorney to provide D. and K.D. with legal services. D. and KD. did not agree to this division of
fees.
85.
Neither Defendant nor his corporation was or is authorized to provide legal
services in Virgioia, even by associating with a local Virgioia attorney.
86.
Throughont the representation, D. and K.D. were told that "Brent Phillips" was
their attomey; they never spoke with Defendant or a Virginia attorney despite numerous requests
for legal advice.
D. and KD. called LHG over fifty times for legal advice and information
87.
regarding LHG's negotiation efforts; their calls were rarely retmned and they never spoke with
an attorney licensed in their jurisdiction.
88.
D. and K.D. became dissatisfied after the lack of communication from LHG and
cancelled the contract with LHG and demanded a refund.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing
Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Marlon B. Messer, and over the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)
By allowing the company of which he was named the president to provide legal
services in NOlth Carolina despite the compauy not being licensed or authorized to provide legal
services in this State, Defendant aided in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule
5.5(f);

(b)
By allowing the company of which he was named the president to hold out as
acting as an inte1IDediary between various individuals and their creditors for the purpose of
reducing or altering the terms of their mortgage payments and receiving a fee for reducing or
altering the terms of their mOltgage payments in advance of the work having been completed,
Page 8 of1S

Defendant engaged in debt adjusting, a criminal act that reflects adversely on a lawyer's
professional fitness in violation of Rule 8.4(b);
By aIl01ving the company of which he was named the president to send
(c)
unsolicited advertisements for legal services without including the requisite disclaimer,
Defendant solicited professional employment from potential clients by written connnunication in
violation of Rule 7.3;
By allowing the company of which he was named the president to recite in the
(d)
contracts between LHG and various individuals that his corporation (LHG) was able to provide
legal services in ajurisdiction where it was not authorized; and by promising various individuals
that: (1) they would be approved for a mOltgage reduction, (2) that theu' payments would be
lowered within a certain amount oHime by various amolllts per month, and (3) that their interest
rates would be reduced to various lower percentages, Defendant made false or misleading
statements about his services in violation of Rule 7.1(a) and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fi'aud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8.4(c);
By allowing the company of which he was named the president to charge various
(e)
individuals for loan modification services in a jurisdiction in which the company was not
authorized to provide legal services, charge and collect money from vadous individuals to
engage Ul illegal debt adjusting on tlleir behalf, and charge the clients various amounts for loan
modifications and yet provide them with no beneficial assistance, Defendant charged and
collected illegal or clearly excessive fees in violation of Rule 1. 5 (a);

(f)
By allowing the company of which he was named the president to fail to provide
various clients with the status of their cases despite numerous requests for the same, Defendant
failed to keep his clients reasonably informed about the status of their cases or explain matters to
the extent reasonably necessary to pennit the clients to make informed decisions regarding their
cases iu violation of Rule 1.4(a) and (b);
By allowing nonlawyer assistants of the company of which he was named the
(g)
president to make various claims to the company's clients and provide the clients with legal
advice, Defendant failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the conduct of his nonlawyer
assistants was compatible with the professional obligations of a lawyer Ul violation of Rule
5.3(b);

(h)
By allowing the company of which he was named the president to give a pOltion
of the fee LHG collected fi-om D. and K.D. to a Virginia attorney, Defendant divided a fee
between lawyers not in the same firm without the clients' knowledge or consent in violation of
Rule 1.5(e); and
(i)
By allowing the company of which he was nanled the president to provide legal
services Ul Virgilia, a jurisdiction in which he was not authorized to practice law, Defendant
engaged in the unauthorized practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.5(a).

Page 9 of1S

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following;
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant was not aware at the time that the individuals refen'ed to herein were
clients of LHG. The only client with whom he had any contact was "S.M." Defendant was not
aware of LHG' s interactions with the other clients referred to herein nOT the extent of the harm
they incurred nntil this action was commenced.
2.
Defendant has fully cooperated with the State Bar's investigation into the
company's activities in NOlih Carolina and other states.
3.
Defendant has acknowledged his conduct violated the Rules of Professional
Conduct from the outset of the State Bar's investigation in this matter. l1noughout the
investigation of' the grievance and in these proceedings before the DHC, Defendant has been
particularly candid ,md fOliln'ight in his responses and in his admissions of' wrongdoing and
violations of the Rules of' Professional Conduct. Defendant has demonstrated genuine remorse
throughout the process.
4.
There is no evidence that Defendaut intended to harm his clients
exhibited a dishonest or selfish motive.
5.

01'

that he

Defendant has no prior discipline in his nearly fifteen years of practice in tlnee

states.
6.
Based upon Defendant's lack of discipline in nearly fifteen years of practice, his
candid admissions tlnoughout these proceedings, his remorse and efforts to rectify the effects on
his clients, and his experience in the practice of law, there is little likelihood of repetition of this
misconduct.
7.
While Defendant nominally SClved as the president and owner ofLHG tlnoughout
the corporation's existence and executed a "declaration" on August 19, 2014 wherein he stated
that he "was personally responsible for representing Legal Help Group's clients in tlle state of
North Carolina," these representations overstate Defendaot's involvement· with LHG. In
substance and practice, though not in name, the beneficial owner and director of LHG was
Phillips. Defendant signed and executed various documents at the direction of Phillips that made
it appeal' Defendant was the owner of LHG. However, Defendant believed he was merely a
minority partner with Phillips. Phillips received the majority of the financial profits made by
LHG; made all decisions regarding the direction and actions of the company; supervised the dayto-day operations ofLHG; andhircd, fired, and supervised all ofLHG's employees.
8.
In instances where clients who paid LHG for legal services contacted Defendant
personally and made him aware of their damages, Defendant promptly aod fully ref,mded the
clients' money. l1lese efforts to rectify were taken plior to the State Bar's investigation into
Defendant.
Page 10 of15

9.
Defendant was unaware that Phillips had incOlporated LHO and named Defendant
as the president and sole owner of LHO lmtil Phillips presented him with the "declaration" on
August 19, 2014.
10.
Defendant was lillaware of the harm LHO was causing to members of the public;
as soon as he was informed of the harm LHO was causing, Defendant immediately took steps to
disassociate with LHO and mitigate the damages suffered by the victims ofLHO about whom he
was aware.
Based upon the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the Additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel
makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REOARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0114(w)(I) and concludes that the following factor that warrants suspension or
disbm'ment is present:
(a) Negative impact of defendant's actions on clicnt's or public's perception of the
profession.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code 1B § .0114(w)(2) and concludes that no factors that warrant disbarment m'e present.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code IB § .0114(w)(3) and concludes that the following m'e applicable in this matter:
(a) Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;
(b) Multiple offenses;
(c) Defendant's full and free disclosure to the heming panel and cooperative attitude
toward the procecdings; and
(d) Defendant's remorse.
4.
Defendant has caused harm to his clients by aiding in the mmuthorized practice of
law and debt adjusting.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered all lesser sanctions including: censure,
reprimand and admonition, and finds that discipline less than suspension would not adequately
protect the public from Defendant's future misconduct because of the gravity of potential
significant harm to his clients.

Page 11 oftS

6.
Under other circumstances, the misconduct in this case would wan'ant more
serious discipline. The misconduct caused substantial ham] to the clients of LHG and potential
hmm to the public's confidence in the integrity of the legal profession. However, the Hearing
Panel concludes that the public will be adequately protected by the discipline imposed given the
specific circnmstances of this case, including the lack of evidence that Defendant intentionally
hmmed the clients, Defendmt's lack of professional discipline, Defendant's favorable
professional and personal reputation in the community, Defendant's candid acceptance of
personal responsibility for his actions from the outset of the State Bar's investigation,
Defendmt's acknowledgement of the wrongfl.llness and seriousness of his misconduct,
Defendant's lack of control over LHG, Defendant's effolis to rectify the harm caused by LHG,
Defendant's lack of awm'eness of the harm caused by LHG, and Defendant's genuine remorse.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings of
Fact Regmding Discipline and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and on the consent of
the pmiies, the Heming Panel enters the following:

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

1.
Defendant, Mmlon Brent Messer, is hereby suspended fi'om the practice of law
for two years, effective ninety days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
Defendmt shall pay, within ninety days of service of the statement of fees md
costs upon him by the Secretary of the State Bar, the administrative fees and costs of this
proceeding.
.

3.
The two year suspension is stayed for a period of two years as long as Defendant
complies with the following conditions:
(a) Defendmt pays the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary of the State Bm within 90 days of service of the statement of fees
and costs upon him;
(b) Within six months of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall complete six
hours of continuing legal education (CLE) courses on the subject of ethics or
professional responsibility. This CLE requirement is in addition to the CLE
requirements set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code lD § .1518;

(c) Defendallt shall keep the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business address. Defendant shall notifY the State Bar of any change of
address within ten days of such change. His cUITent business address must be a
street address, not a post office box or drawer;
(d) Defendmt shall respond to all communications from the State Bat', including
commlmicatiollS frolll the Attorney Client Assistance Progral1l, within thitiy days

Page 12 of15

of receipt of such communication or by the deadline stated in the co=unication,
whichever is sooner;
(e) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar continuing legal education
requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;

(t) Defendant will pay all State Bar and jndicial district membership dnes, Client
Secmity Fund assessments, and any other l'elated dues, fees, and/or costs by the
applicable deadline;
(g) Defendant shall not violate any of the Rnles of Professional Conduct in effect
dming the period of the stay;
(h) Defendant shaIl not violate any laws of the United States or of any state or local
goverl111lcnt, othel' than minor traffic violations, during the period of the stay; and
(i) Defendant shall not participate or be associated with any business entity or law
firm engaged in providing legal services in more than one state without first
providing written notice of such to the N orlh Carolina State Bar Office of Counsel
and thereafter providing the State Bar with any documents the State Bar requests
pursuant to that association.

4.

Unless Defendant's obligations under this Order are modified by filliher order of
the DHC, Defendant's obligations lmder this Order end two years from the effective date of the
Order provided there are no motions or show cause proceedings pending alleging lack of
compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code
1B § .0114(x), the DHC retains jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have
been met. If a motion or show cause proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions
for the stay of the suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension wonld
otherwise have terminated, the DHC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the two year suspension in whole or in part if it fmds that any of the
conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendant's obligation
to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue 1ll1til resolution of any such pending
motion or show cause proceeding.

5.
If Defelldant fails to comply with anyone or more ofille conditions set out above
in this Order of Discipline, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted and the suspension
activated in accordance with 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .Ol14(x).
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for any
reason, the Disciplinary Hearing Commission may enter an order imposing such conditions as it
deems proper for the reinstatement of Defendant's license at the end of the suspension.
Additionally, Defendant must establish the foHowing by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
prior to being reinstated to the practice oflaw after any period of active suspension:

Page13of1S

(a)

That Defendant submitted his law license and membership card to the Secretary
of the State Bar within thirty days ofthe date of the order lifting the stay anellor
activating the suspension of ills law license;

(b)

That Defendant complied with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code IE §
.0124 following entry of the order lifting the stay anellor actiVating the
suspension of ills law license;

(c)

That Defendant timely paid all administrative fees and costs assessed against
him in this proceeding as reflected on the statement of costs SClVed upon him
by the Secretary of the State Bar;

(d)

That within 15 days of the effective date of the order activating the suspension,
Defendant provided the State Bar with an address and telephone number at
which clients seeking retum of files could communicate with Defendant to
obtain such files;

(e)

That Defendant provided witilin ten days client files to all clients who made a
request fOT rettun of their files;

(f)

That Defendant has kept the State Bar Membership Department advised of his
current business street addresses (not post office box or drawer addresses) and
notified the State Bar of any change in address within ten days of such change;

(g)

That Defendant has responded to all communications from the State Bar,
including communications from the Attomey Client Assistance Program, within
thhiy days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever
is sooner;

(h)

That Defendant has not participated 01' been associated with any husiness entity
or law fum engaged in providing legal services in more than one state without
fIrst providing written notice of such to the North Carolina State Bar Office of
Counsel and thereafter providing the State Bar with any documents the State
Bar requests pursuant to this association;

(i)

That, at the time of his petition for rehlstatement, Defendant is current in
payment of all membership dues, fees and costs, illcluding all Client Security
Fund assessments, and other charges 01' surcharges the State Bar is authorized
to collect from him, including all judicial district dues and assessments;

(j)

That, at the time of his petition for reinstatement, there is no deficit in
Defendailt's completion of mandatory CLE holll's in repOliing of such hours or
in payment of any fees associated with attendance at CLE programs;

Page 14 005

(k)

Tha! al the time ofbis p.tltlon for relnsl.tcm.n~ Defendanl had completed six
hov~ of CLE courscs o,n the subjeot of (::Ihlc..tt or profussiofJ.u] rt'spoJlsibHlfy
withtn Hix month$ of the- effective date oflhis order;

'(I)

TIm, Dofendant did not violate any of tho Rules of ProfessIonal Conduot In
effect during Ih-e period ofthe suspeIlsion: and

,(m) Thai Dofo"d'llI did 110' yIol.!. the Iaw&oftlre Uniled Slates, or tbe laws ofl!l1.Y
statu tlr. (oCElI gOVCmntcn:t, othlJf tlmn minor U'Ilh'it'l v.{olJltiQns, durlhg·th~ ~riod

ofthe Busplmsion,

7.
The DfsQipflnary Hearing Commission wHl f(rtain iurisdiction of this matter
p.rnuaJll (0 27 N,C, AdmIn, C<lde III § ,0 1l4(><) ,,[file North Carolln. Stal. aar Discipline and
Dfaability' Rul~'''1 'lntil all oondittom: tlfthe a.ay of 8t1spension ill\)" sa.t!!lfied.

~
.

the

ed by the Chair with 1h(l COliscJ.lt ofthe-oilicr Hearing Panel members thJs
oyof
~ 2016,

MtJ.&.
\

\

,I,'~
fl[lJ1/ Ll101 pJ~1U.lftJL_,~~~
~1J..iloutie{
Date

Altomeytor Plaintiff

J

?~

ua~;u"""""

.-

ttom~y for l'lalntiff

"eL4

Mfu'Jona eSs<lr

,

Di~ A~_.__ ~$!tf,1/Jf
__cc'~
7~#d£~F;
---

~~.A
At(OrilO'y:fut Pcf(lndHl1l

.Date

.

_

