'1~j3\VT"2J>
"'~
.
1-5'
if?
~ " 0'
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA f<].~' ~A ~~7__

-'

~

~

~
R

WAKE COUNTY

"<"0 Dl~PLI
;a
-:
.~ NO~
~

BEFORE THE
Y HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
CAROLlNASTATEBAR
I4DHC26

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.
BOBBY D. MILLS, Attorney,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was heard on November 19 and 20, 2014 before a Hearing Panel of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Chair, and members
Beverly T. Beal and Bradley Lail. Jennifer A. Porter represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bal'. Defendant, Bobby D. Mills, was present and represented by David S. Coats.
Based upon the pleadings, the stipulated tacts, and the evidence introduced at the hearing,
the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the NOlth Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized
under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter I of Title 27 of the North Carolina
Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant, Bobby D. Mills ("Mills"), was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in 1985, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice
in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of Professional Conduct.
3.
During all 01' pmt of the relevant periods referred to herein, Mills was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Raleigh, Wake
County, North Carolina.
4.
Mills was properly served with process, a hearing in this matter was set, and the
matter came before the hearing panel with due notice to all parties.

5.
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Mills was an attorney with the law
firm of Herring Mills & Kratt, PLLC ("the firm").
6.

The firm's practice includes providing representation in adoption matters.

7.
A Child's Rope, LLC ("ACH") is a licensed North Carolina private child
placement agency.
S.
At the time of the events alleged in this complaint, Mills had an ownership
interest in ACH, ACR rented an office in the firm's office suite, and Mills pmticipated in the
management of operations of ACH.
9.
Prospective adoptive parents who utilize ACH to try to adopt a child are informed
of Mills' ownership interest in the firm and in ACH and are informed of their right to counsel of
their choice. Prospective adoptive parents indicate in writing whether they choose to retain the
firm or outside counsel oftheir choice.
10.
A certain set of prospective parents, who shall be refelTed to as "the Ns," retained
the firm to represent them in pursuing adoption of a child placed with ACH for adoption. The
child shall be refelTed to as "K."
II.
On
behalf of the Ns.

01'

about January 20, 2010, the firm filed a Petition for Adoption of K on

12.
Because K's birth mother indicated to ACH that she did not know K's father's
identity, last name, or address, there were two components to Mills's representation of the Ns in
the adoption case: (i) a termination proceeding that sought to terminate the parental tights ofK's
biological father and (ii) the adoption proceeding.
13.
proceeding.

Mills handled all aspects of the representation that related to the adoption

14.
Mills assigned an associate of the firm, DR, to handle the patt of the
representation that related to the termination proceeding.
15.
proceeding.
16.

Mills was DR's supervising attorney for her work related to the tennination

On March 22, 20 10, DR filed a petition for termination of parental rights.

17.
The termination petition stated that the identity and location ofK's father was not
known and could not be discovered with reasonable diligence.
IS.
On March 25, 20 I 0, DH filed a motion to provide service by publication in the
termination action based upon the firm's representation to the COUlt that the identity and location
ofK's father was not known and could not be discovered with reasonable diligence.

-2-

19.
The COUlt granted the motion for service by publication and the firm proceeded
with publishing notice in the termination action. Notice was published on April 7, April 14, and
April 21, 2010.
20.
On or about April 15, 2010, Mills became aware that an individual who shall be
refelTed to as "J" had contacted ACH and stated that he was K's biological father.
21.

On or about April 21, 2010, K's mother identified J as K's father to ACH.

22.

Mills gave J notice of the adoption proceeding.

23.

Mills did not give J notice of the termination proceeding.

24.

Mills did not instruct DH to give J notice of the termination proceeding.

On May II, 2010, after the three dates of notice pUblication were concluded for
25.
service in the termination proceeding, the firm filed an affidavit of service executed by a film
paralegal in the termination case.
26.
The affidavit of service stated that the identity of any possible father was not
known and could not be known with the exercise of due diligence.
27.
The statement in the affidavit of service that the identity of any possible father
Was not known was not accurate when made in May 2010.
28.
There was no indication in the affidavit of service that J was excluded from this
description or was intended to be excluded from any resulting telmination order.
29.
The court held a hearing on ACII's petition for termination of parental rights on
or about May 26, 20 I O.
30.
Neither Mills nor DH gave J notice of the hearing on ACH's petition for
termination of parental rights.
31.

J did not pmticipate in the hearing on ACH's petition for termination of parental

rights.
32.
Mills failed to ensure DH cOlTected the prior representation made to the court that
the firm lacked knowledge of the identity and location of any possible father of K.
33.
Mills failed to ensure that the documentation and information presented to the
COUlt by DH and the firm's paralegal in the termination proceeding after J contacted ACH was
accurate, excluding J from the broad categories of any possible father or parent.
On May 26, 20 I 0 the court entered an order that terminated the parental rights of
34.
"Respondents, Calvin or Kevin or Any Unknown or Possible Parent" with no exclusion of J from
the category of "possible parent" or any other indication that the order did not apply to J.

-3-

35.
Despite choosing to give notice to J only of the adoption proceeding and not of
the termination proceeding, Mills subsequently attempted to have the termination of parental
rights order applied to J.
36.
On November 8, 2010, Mills instructed another associate attorney, DB, to file a
motion for an order finding J's consent was not required for the adoption, with the basis being
that J's parental rights had been terminated by the order in the termination proceeding.
37.
J filed an action for custody ofK on September 24,2010. Mills represented ACH
in that action. In the answer and counterclaim he prepared and filed for ACH he relied in part on
the termination proceeding as a defense.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All the parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Bobby D. Mills, and the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a)
By failing to ensure that the pleadings and other filings DH and the firm's
paralegal submitted to the court in the termination proceeding contained accurate
information and excluded J, Mills engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice in violation of Rule 8A(d), failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the
conduct of his subordinate attorney conformed to the Rules of Professional Conduct in
violation of Rules 5.l(b), and failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the conduct
of his nonlawyer assistant was compatible with the professional obligations of a lawyer in
violation of Rule 5.3(b); and
(b)
By failing to give J notice of the termination proceedings and then attempting to
apply the order from the termination proceedings to J in the adoption proceedings, Mills
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d)
and is responsible for having a subordinate lawyer file the Motion for Consent Not
Necessary which attempted to apply the termination order to J in violation of Rule
5.l(c)(l).
3.
It was not established by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that Defendant's
conduct in failing to give J notice of the termination proceedings and then attempting to apply
the order from the termination proceedings to J in the adoption proceedings was conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation and accordingly the Hearing Panel did
not find any violation of Rule SA(c).

-4-

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing Panel
hereby finds by clear, cogent and convincing evidence the following additional
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.

Thefindings of fact in paragraphs I - 37 above are reincorporated as if set forth

herein.
2.
Defendant's failure to ensure the affidavit of service by pUblication and the
termination order submitted by the associate and paralegal contained accurate information and
excluded J resulted in the following significant harm to the administration of justice: I) the filing
of an inaccurate affidavit that stated "The post office of the person to be served is not known and
cannot be ascertained with reasonable diligence" and "the full identity and whereabouts of the
Respondents Any Unknown Parent or Possible Parent is unknown and cannot with the exercise
of due diligence be determined;" 2) a termination order entered after such inaccurate
representations were made to the court and with no correction or disclosure that J was known and
that his parental rights were being addressed in the adoption proceeding; 3) a termination order
which, on its face, could appear to apply to a man who was known but who had not been
properly served or made an appearance in the termination proceeding.
3.
The actual attempt in November 2010 to use the termination order against J is
evidence of the potential significant harm caused by the failure to ensure that the documents
submitted by DH and the paralegal were accurate and excluded J.
4.
Defendant's attempt to use against J the termination order from the termination
proceeding in which he had not given J notice likewise caused significant harm and potential
significant harm to the administration of justice. Defendant filed a motion that J's consent was
not necessary to the adoption based upon the termination order. This required J to defend against
an order entered in a proceeding in which he had not been given notice or the opportunity to be
heard. Defendant sought relief to which he was not entitled and required additional judicial
filings and resources to un-do what should never have been done.
5.
The area of adoption law involves unique vulnerabilities and risks of harm
because of the child that is the subject of the anticipated adoption and the relationships involved.
6.
Defendant joined in requesting that the court in the termination action relieve J
from application of the termination order after counsel for J filed a motion for relief.
7.
Defendant notified cOUlis in subsequent hearings that he had made a mistake and
that he was joining in the request to relieve J from application ofthe termination order.
8.
truthfulness.
9.

Defendant has established a reputation for good character, veracity, and

Defendant has no prior discipline.

-5-

10.
Defendant's wife was undergoing treatment for cancer in the fall of 2010 and
Defendant was out of the office multiple days each week supporting her during this time.
11.
K's birthmother did not provide ACH with accurate information about the
birthfather, resulting in ACH and Defendant not knowing about J initially.
12.
Defendant reduced his caseload and no longer supervises associate attorneys.
Defendant resigned as director and no longer has any ownership interest in ACH.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters the fullowing
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB
§ .0114(w)(I), (2) and (3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar. We conclude that there
are no applicable factors under § .0114(w)(2). We conclude that the following factors under
.01l4(w)(I) and (3) are applicable:
27 N.C.A.C. IB § .01l4(w)(I)

a.

Factor (F), Negative impact of Defendant's actions on the administration
of justice.

27 N.C.A.C. IB § .01l4(w)(3)
b.

Factor (A), No history of prior disciplinary offenses;

c.

Factor (C), Absence of selfish motive;

d.

Factor (D), Timely good faith effOlts to rectify the consequences of his
misconduct;

e.

Factor (G), Multiple offenses;

f.

Factor (H), Effect of personal or emotional problems on the conduct in
question;

g.

Factor (K), Full and free disclosure to the hearing panel and a cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

h.

Factor (Q), Excellent character reputation;

i.

Factor (R), Vulnerability of the victims, particularly the vulnerability of
the minor child and the adoptive parents;

-6-

j.

Factor (S), Substantial degree of experience in the practice oflaw; and

k.

Factor (V) Other factors not specifically listed:
I) The dishonesty of the birthmother, which created the circumstances
under which J was initially not known; and
2) Defendant's voluntary adjustment of his office practices, his reduction
in his practice, his changed management responsibility, and his divestment
of an ownership interest in the adoption agency.

2.
The Hearing Panel considered all of the disciplinary options available to it. In the
course of this consideration, the Hearing Panel carefully considered the factor that could be
considered in imposing a suspension or stayed suspension. In light of all of the evidence, and
pmticularly in light ofthe matters ongoing in Defendant's personal life at the time as well as the
additional factors itemized above under .0114(w)(3)(V), the Hearing Panel concluded a censure
is a more appropriate discipline.
3.
The Hearing Panel considered all lesser sanctions and concluded that discipline
short of censure would not adequately protect the public. Imposition of a lesser discipline would
fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses Defendant committed and would send the
wrong message to members of the Bar and the public regarding the conduct expected of
members ofthe Bar of this State.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.

Defendant, Bobby D. Mills, is hereby CENSURED.

2.
Defendant shall pay the administrative fees and costs ofthis proceeding, including
the costs of all depositions, as assessed by the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant must pay the costs within 30 days of service upon him of the statement of costs by the
Secretary.
Sjgned by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the.) J-.
day of () frl.'l Lt~
, 20 Nv' !:i

//~!

on

·trey, Jr., Chair
Isciplinary Hearing Panel

-7-

