NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09G1121

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

)

A. Stanley Mitchell,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 22, 2010, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by D .H.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented M.B. in a civil eviction action filed by D.H. D.H. appeared pro se.
After the August 2009 hearing on the matter, you were to draft an order detailing the outcome of
the hearing. D.H. filed a grievance complaining that you failed to timely prepare the order. On
October 13,2009, you received the letter of notice for the grievance. You therefore had 15 days,
or until October 28, 2009 lO provide a written response. You failed to do so. The Office of

Counsel sent you a follow up letter reminding you of your obligation to provide a written
response. You were given until January 15,2010 to provide a written response. On January 15,
2010, you called Deputy Counsel. You left a voice mail message stating that you sent a written
response in November 2009. Deputy Counsel returned your call and left a voice mail message
informing you that the State Bar did not receive your response. You were directed to fax your
response on January 15, 2010. You failed to do so. On January 31, 2010, you provided a written
response via fax. You therefore failed to timely respond to the grievance in violation of Rule
8.I(b). On June 1,2010, Deputy Counsel left you a voice mail message requesting a status of the
order. You failed to respond in violation of Rule 8.1 (b). The Grievance Committee did not find
probable cause that you failed to timely prepare and file the order in violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount
of $100.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the ~G day of_~~::;;;~::<=:::Jd''::::=~, 2010

/~Q~

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

