\\,,\'0 \Ii 1718';Ya

~0;,
~

NORTH CAROLINA

"'"
;;

D

~

Fe 2009
FiLED

Du
\\&.
nO

\~

WAKE COUNTY

t'0~
~~

~;.,~
~ BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY

r'":.>

0.)

'-0',
.' ~"'
, '~\l]::,l'/
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

EARING COMMISSION OF THE
ORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09DHC20

Petitioner
v,

ORDER
OF
DISBARMENT

HILTON STUART MITCHELL, Attorney,
Respondent

THIS MATTER coming before the undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission pursuant to N.C. Admin. Code title 27, Rule !B.0l17(d) upon an affidavit of
surrender oflicense executed by Hilton Stuart Mitchell ("Mitchell") dated December 10,
2009 and filed in the offices of the North Carolina State Bar on December 11,2009.
Based upon the pleadings and the record, the undersigned makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws
of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and
regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2. Defendant was licensed to practice law in North Carolina on August 27, 2002.
3. During all periods relevant hereto, Defendant was engaged in the practice of
law in North Carolina.
4. Defendant has indicated his consent to disbarment by filing an affidavit of
surrender with the Disciplinary Hearing Commission. The affidavit meets all
requirements set forth in N.C. Admin. Code title 27, Rule !B.0117(a)(l) through (4), and
(d).
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact the undersigned makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I. N. C. Admin. Code title 27, Rule !B.OI08 provides that the Chair of the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission has the power to enter orders disbarring members by
consent.

2. Defendant's affidavit meets all requirements set forth in N.C. Admin. Code
title 27, Rule IB.0117(a)(l) through (4), and (d), and the facts on which the affidavit is
predicated warrant Defendant's disbannent.
3. Defendant has admitted the material facts as alleged in the State Bar's
complaint, incorporated herein by reference, and the misconduct alleged in the complaint
has been established.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the
undersigned Chair of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission enters the following:

ORDER
I. The surrender of the license of Hilton Stuart Mitchell is hereby accepted.
2. Hilton Stuart Mitchell is DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North
Carolina effective upon the entry of this order with the Secretary ofthe North Carolina
State Bar.
3. Hilton Stuart Mitchell shall comply with the provisions of N.C. Admin. Code
title 27, Rule IB.0124 of the State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
4. The costs of this action are taxed against the Defendant.
Done and Ordered this

J6 ~ay of.~

,2009.

,;7.k.~~h1

F. Lane Williamson, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Commission

BEFORE THE DISCIPLINARY HE~wgm'1Ti?!"-,.
COMMISSION OF THE
'\ '6 '::l 'u
:f.t'l
NORTH CAROLINA STATE
fu
~:~,
09 DHC 20
_ '
D 200q
-:;~"

NORTH CAROLINA

4-

WAKE COUNTY

t,'\;;

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,

DHC

SURREN~R-

Plaintiff

AFFIDAVIT OF
OF LAW LICENSE

v.

"lt~.' .',~

~~;' ~~.I,::'::.,.:.'~I'!"':·'

Defendant

HILTON STUART MITCHELL, being first duly sworn, deposes and says as follows:

1.
I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North
Carolina pursuant to State Bar Discipline & Disability Rule 27 NCAC IB.O 117.
2. My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered, and is not the result of coercion or duress. I
am represented by counsel and I am fully aware of the implications of submitting my resignation.
3. J am aware that there is a fonnal complaint against me filed by the Stale Bar before the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission alleging that I have been guilty of misconduc1 by
misappropriating funds from the law firm by which J was employed by accepting direct payment
of $21 ,665 in legal fees owed to tile firm to which fees I was not entitled, and depositing said fees
into my personal bank account rather than forwarding the fees to the firm. The amended
complaint is incorporated herein by reference and a copy of it is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
4. I acknowledge that the material facts alleged in the amended complaint are true.
5. J am submitting my resignation because I know that I cannot successfully defend against the
charges in the complaint.

-!'J

Jil.. day of
~----=->--.

J-Hilton Stuart Mitchell

I,
Notal Public of the County of !hA){\,\UJ}OL, State of North
Carolina, certify that
~~~~peared before me this day~ was sworn, attested
that the foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate ofber own personal knowledge, and executed the
foregoing Affidavit.
This the

JDTh day OflliQ~ 2009.

eSC

Cd- ?

--

Notary Public

My Commission Expires:

14.ll'010013

r

;;,

/.,,:;~~(

-J,,';" !;; ,'.- "-,'.0'

HILTON STUART MITCHELL, Attorney,

This the

~

FILED"
•

"

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

BEFOR E THE
DISCIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSIO \
(D
OF THE
1<)
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~
09 DHC 20
I~'"

~\""
I?,?,

"
0- Cj \1 II Ie

.I~' /~~

L'

-,

~~

FilED

~

z.:,

DHC

--------------------------_...:¥"',::~
\4'...
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR, )
Plaintiff
)
)
v.
)
)
HILTON STUART MITCHELL, Attorney, )
Defendant )

">\

DEC 2009

c';
,

~/~.}...

<.

;;-,;.'

~-~.;

.",~

..y',';

.-«\'~~~-~. ._~~~:; .. ,/

AMENDED COMPLAINT

Plaintiff, complaining of Defendant, alleges and says:
1, Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (hereinafter "State Bar"), is a
body duly organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to
bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina
State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Defendant, Hilton Stuart Mitchell (hereinafter "Defendant"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on August 27, 2002 and is, and was at
all times referred to herein, an Attorney at Law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of
the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
Upon information and belief, the State Bar alleges:
3. During the times relevant herein, Defendant actively engaged in the
practice of law and worked at the law firm of Brock & Scott ("the Firm") in
Wilmington, New Hanover County, North Carolina,
4.
Defendant was an associate at the Firm and never held any
partnership, membership or ownership interest in the Firm,
5. Defendant was never entitled to share in the income or profits of the
Firm,
6. All legal fees that Defendant received from any client while employed
at the Firm were the property of the Firm,

EXHIBIT

! 8=

FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF
7. The allegations of paragraphs 1-6 are incorporated herein by reference
as if fully set forth herein.
8. On or about July 17, 2008 Defendant deposited into his personal bank
account a check in the amount of $3,000 from Kathleen Intiso.
9. The check was for payment of legal fees that were owed to the Firm for
Defendant's representation of James Intiso and the proceeds of the check were
the property of the Firm.
10. Defendant did not inform the Firm about the $3,000 payment from Ms.
Intiso.
11. Defendant did not have permission from the Firm to accept direct
payment of the Firm's fees from Ms. Intiso nor did he have permission to use the
funds for his personal benefit.
12. On or about August 27, 2008 Defendant deposited into his personal
bank account a check in the amount of $3,000 from Kathleen Intiso.
13. The check was for payment of legal fees that were owed to the Firm
for Defendant's representation of James Intiso and the proceeds of the check
were the property of the Firm.
14. Defendant did not have permission from the Firm to accept direct
payment of the Firm's fees from Ms. Intiso nor did he have permission to use
them for his personal benefit.
15. Defendant used the $6,000 from Ms. Intiso that he deposited into his
personal bank account for his personal benefit.
THEREFORE, the State Bar alleges that Defendant's foregoing actions
constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that
Defendant violated one or more of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at
the time of his actions as follows:
a. by depositing each of the $3,000 payments for legal fees from
Kathleen Intiso into his personal bank account rather than forwarding
them to the Firm, Defendant used entrusted property for the benefit of
someone other than the legal or beneficial owner of that property in
violation of Rule 1.15-2 U) and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8.4(c).

SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF
16. The allegations of paragraphs 1-15 are incorporated herein by
reference as if fully set forth herein.
17. On or about August 29, 2008, Defendant deposited into his personal
bank account a check in the amount of $2,000 from Seahawk Properties, LLC.
18. The check was for payment of legal fees that were owed to the Firm
for Defendant's representation of Archie S. Raynor and the proceeds of the
check were the property of the Firm.
19. Defendant did not inform the Firm about the $2,000 payment from
Seahawk Properties, LLC.
20. Defendant did not have permission from the Firm to accept direct
payment of the Firm's legal fees from Seahawk, LLC nor did he have permission
to use the funds for his personal benefit.
21. Defendant used the $2,000 from Seahawk, LLC that he deposited into
his personal bank account for his own personal benefit.
THEREFORE, the State Bar alleges that Defendant's foregoing actions
constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.G.S. §84-28(b)(2) in that
Defendant violated one or more of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at
the time of his actions as follows:
a. by depositing the $2,000 payment for legal fees from Seahawk, LLC
into his personal bank account rather than forwarding it to the Firm,
Defendant used entrusted property for the benefit of someone other
than the legal or beneficial owner of that property in violation of Rule
1.15-2 U) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or
misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A(c).

THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF
22. The allegations of paragraphs 1-21 are incorporated herein by
reference as if fully set forth herein.
23. On or about April 9, 2007 Defendant deposited into his personal bank
account a check in the amount of $15,000 from Coastal Estates, Inc.

24. The check was payment of legal fees that were owed to the Firm for
Defendant's representation of Otto K. Pridgen, III and the proceeds of the check
were the property of the Firm.
25. Defendant did not inform the Firm about the $15,000 payment from
Coastal Estates, Inc.
26. Defendant did not have permission from the Firm to accept direct
payment of the Firm's fees from Coastal Estates, Inc. nor did he have permission
to use the funds for his personal benefit.
27. On or about June 25, 2007 Defendant deposited into his personal
bank account a check in the amount of $225 from Coastal Estates, Inc.
28. The check was payment of legal fees that were owed to the Firm for
Defendant's representation of Otto K. Pridgen, III and the proceeds of the check
were the property of the Firm.
29. Defendant did not inform the Firm about the $225 payment from
Coastal Estates, Inc.
30. Defendant did not have permission from the Firm to accept direct
payment of the Firm's fees from Coastal Estates, Inc. nor did he have permission
to use the funds for his personal benefit.
31. On or about April 25, 2008 Defendant deposited into his personal bank
account a check in the amount of $250 from Coastal Estates, Inc.
32. The check was payment of legal fees that were owed to the Firm for
Defendant's representation of Otto K. Pridgen, III and the proceeds of the check
were the property of the Firm.
33. Defendant did not inform the Firm about the $250 payment from
Coastal Estates, Inc.
34. Defendant did not have permission from the Firm to accept direct
payment of the Firm's fees from Coastal Estates, Inc. nor did he have permission
to use the funds for his personal benefit.
35. Defendant used the $15,475 from Coastal Estates, Inc. that he
deposited into his personal bank account for his personal benefit.
THEREFORE, the State Bar alleges that Defendant's foregoing actions
constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) in that
Defendant violated one or more of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at
the time of his actions as follows:

a. by depositing the $15,475 payment for legal fees from Coastal Estates,
Inc. into his personal bank account rather than forwarding it to the
Firm, Defendant used entrusted property for the benefit of someone
other than the legal or beneficial owner of that property in violation of
Rule 1.15-2 U) and engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule 8A(c).

FOURTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF
36. The allegations of paragraphs 1-35 are incorporated herein by
reference as if fully set forth herein.
37. Defendant deposited into his personal bank account fees in the
approximate amount of $1,190 for his representation of several other Firm
clients.
38. Defendant utilized the fees in the approximate amount of $1,190 for
his personal benefit.
39. Defendant did not inform the Firm about the $1,190 in fees he
deposited into his bank account.
40. The approximately $1 ,190 in fees deposited into Defendant's personal
bank account were the property of the Firm.
41. Defendant did not have permission from the Firm to accept direct
payment of legal fees paid by the Firm's clients nor did he have permission to
use the funds for his personal benefit.
THEREFORE, the State Bar alleges that Defendant's foregoing actions
constitute grounds for discipline pursuant to N. C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(b)(2) in that
Defendant violated one or more of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at
the time of his actions as follows:
a. by depositing approximately $1,190 in legal fees from several Firm
clients into his personal bank account rather than forwarding them to
the Firm, Defendant used entrusted property for the benefit of
someone other than the legal or beneficial owner of that property in
violation of Rule 1.15-2 U) and engaged in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in violation of Rule
8A(c).

WHEREFORE, the State Bar prays that
1. Disciplinary action be taken against Defendant in accordance with N.
C. Gen. Stat. §84-28(c) and 27 N.CAC. 1B §.0114 as the evidence on hearing
may warrant,
2. Defendant be taxed with the costs permitted by law in connection with
this proceeding, and
3.

For such other and further relief as is appropriate.

This the 11 th day of December 2009.

Ronald G. Baker, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

ean Bal ey Hodge, Deputy Couns
Attorney for Plaintiff
The North Carolina State Bar
P. O. Box 25908
Raleigh, NC 27611
(919) 828-4620

