BEFORE THE
GlUEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLWA STATE BAR
0660086

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF

1

ROBERT D. CRAIG,

)
)

ATTORNEY AT LAW

CENSURE

1
)

On October 19,2006, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by the North Carolina State Bar.
Pursuant to section -0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justiQing disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
The Grievance Committee determined that you provided information to the Sheriff of Alamance
County about illegal distribution of controlled substances by J.P. The inforrnation provided by you led
to the arrest of J.P. You then undertook to represent J.P. in the resulting criminal charges. You did not
disclose to J.P. that you provided the information that led to his arrest. You quoted a fee to J.P.,
collected a portion of the fee and attempted to collect the balance. The Grievance Committee
determined that your conduct violated Rules 1.S(a), 1.7, 1.8, and 8.4 (c), (d) and (g) of the Revised
Rules of Professional Conduct.

You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15,198 1 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any aaomey issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
Done and ordered, this

,2006.

/&+&

Barbara B. eyher, Chair
Grievance C m i t t e e
The North Carolina State Bar

