NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
14G0683

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Joan M. Mitchell,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 16, 2015 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by A. J. The grievance was assigned to a
Subcommittee, which thoroughly reviewed the results of the State Bar staffs investigation of this
matter.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Subcommittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Subcommittee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause
to believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were hired by AJ to pursue a medical malpractice claim on behalf of Decedent's
estate. You contacted FE, a nurse holding a doctorate of education, to review the medical
records. FE initially found one deviation in the standard of care that she did not believe was a

cause of Decedent's death. You filed a motion and were granted an extension to the statute of
limitations to obtain all medical records, to locate persons reasonably expected to qualify as
expert witnesses, and to afford the witnesses time to review the medical records. During the next
six months, you did not obtain additional records and you made no genuine effort to find an
expert who could testify about Decedent's medical care. When you filed the medical malpractice
complaint, it was based on FE's findings although FE had informed you it was not a strong case
and you knew she could not testify to causation. You also knew FE could not qualify as an expert
on the medical care, only the nursing care. You failed to inform AJ of FE's opinion. Your
complaint lacked merit and was frivolous.
Your failure to find a medical expert demonstrated a lack of diligence in violation of Rule
1.3. Your failure to communicate with AJ about FE's opinions and the validity of the complaint
was a violation of Rule 1.4(a)(l), (3), and (b). By filing a frivolous complaint you violated Rule
3.1.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

7~

day of

ftu lo u.s T

Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

'2015.

