BEFORE TI-IE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
IOG0657

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Charles D. Mooney,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On April 21, 2011 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by R. M.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written foml of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in tIllS case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
R.M. retained you in March 2008 for representation in a personal injury matter. You
timely filed a complaint on R.M.'s behalf, but failed to serve the opposing party and failed to
maintain a chain of sununonses, causing the case to be dismissed. Throughout the course of the
representation, you failed to maintain adequate communication with R.M. despite R.M.'s
numerous requests for a status update on the case; and specifically, you failed to inform R.M.

when her case was dismissed due to your error. The statute of limitations is now expired on
R.M.' s claim, leaving R.M. with no legal recourse to collect damages against the opposing party
in this matter. Accordingly, you failed to act with reasonable diligence and promptness in
representing a client in violation of Rule 1.3, and you failed to keep the client reasonably
informed about the status of the matter and promptly comply with reasonable requests for
information in violation of Rules 1.4(a)(3) & (4). Your conduct also eliminated R.M.'s legal
remedy in tllis matter and prevented R.M.'s case from being resolved on the merits, and was
tllerefore prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation of Rule 8.4(d).
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Conmlittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.

In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of
$100.00 is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

/Y day o f - / / ( 7 '
/~.c<:l)<\
Ronald G. Balcer, Sr., Chair
Grievance Committee

RGB/lr

, 20 II.

