NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEV ANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
12G0807

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Jennifer W. Moore,
Attorney At Law

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On January 23, 2014 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by C. W.
Pursuant to Section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You represented CW in a child support matter originating in another state. You filed a
motion to show cause in North Carolina. You attempted to mislead the Bar by saying the show
cause hearing was continued to another court date when, in fact, the court struck the show cause
order. Your statement to the Bar violated Rule 8.1 (b).

You claim to have been actively negotiating with opposing counsel during the long
representation, however, your records show only 1.3 hours of work in ten months and you had no
evidence that negotiations were transpiring. Your failure to actively pursue your client's interests
for a long period of time indicates a failure to acknowledge the urgency of child support
payments and violated Rule 1.3.
When the opposing party sent a settlement check to your office, you forwarded the check
to CW and withdrew from the representation without explaining the status of the matter or the
effect of accepting the money to your client. You knew CW did not want to settle for the offered
amount. Your withdrawal without taking steps to protect CW's interests violated Rule 1.16(d).
Accepting settlement money without question and without advising CW regarding acceptance of
the money violated Rule 1.4.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23, 2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

~ day of {flCVuh..,

John M. Silverstein, Chair
Grievance Committee

JMS/lb

,2014.

