BEFORE THE
ARY HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
15 DRC 13

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

WAKE COUNTY

.

.I!

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE JJMJ""""~"

THOMASINE E. MOORE, Attorney,

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission. composed of Barbara B. Weyher, Chair, and members Fred M. Morelock
and Michael S. Edwards pursuant to NOIth Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter I, Subchapter B, §.OI1.4(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Portel·.
Defendant Thomasine E. Moore was represented by James E. Ferguson, II. Botll Plaintiff
and Defendant stipulat~ and agree to tile findings affact and conclusions oflaw recited in
this Consent Order and to the discipline imposed. Defendant freely and voluntarily
stipUlates to the foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of law and
cntry of the Order of Discipline. Defendant freely and voluntarily waives any and all
right to appeal the entry ofthis consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in tIlis matter, tile parties' stipulations of fact, and witll
the consent of the palties, tile Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
a.
Plaintiff; the North Carolina Stale Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the propel' party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General
Statutes, and the Rules and Regulations of the NorTh Carolina State Bar promulgated
tIlereundel'.
1.
Defendant, Thomasine E. Moore ("Moore" or "Defendant"), was admitted
to the North Carolina State Bar on August 24, 1975, and is, and was at all times referred
to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of
the State of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations oflhe North Carolina State Bar
and tile Rules of Professional Conduct.

The North Carolina Stale Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

/

I
I

Plaintiff

v.

I

Page 1 of12

I

I

2.
Defendant was properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
3.
During the relevant periods referred to herein, Defendant was engaged in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in
Jacksonville, Onslow County, North Carolina.
4.
Defendant has maintained attorney trust accounts in the course of her law
practice, one at First Citizens Bank with account number ending in 6382 ("FCB trust
account"), and one at Branch Banking and Trust Company (BB&T) with account number
ending in 5389 (BB&T trust account").

5.

Defendant has maintained operating accounts for her law practice, one at
First Citizens Bank with account number ending in 0625 ("FCB operating account"), and
one at BB&T with account number ending in 5354 ("BB&T operating account").

6.
In 1999, Defendant represented minor child LC and obtained a settiement
in her case. The settlement was approved by court order.

7.

The court order approving LC's settlement required that certain funds that
remained after payment of fees and costs to be invested. "for the benefit of the minor .
child."

8.
In accordance with the court's order, Defendant placed· fuuds for LC for
investment. This included Defendant placing a portion of the settlement proceeds
received for LC for investment with Cape Securities, Inc. for LC's benefit.
>

9.
[n 2004, the investment account for LC was closed and a check in the
amount of$2,148.50 was scntto Defendant for Le,
10.

LC was still a minor in 2004.

II.
Upon receipt of the funds for LC, Defendant should have deposited the
funds into an attorney trust account and held them in trust for LC, unless and until
disbursed to LC or for her bencfit. Because LC was still a minor in 2004, Defendant
should have depositcd the funds into her trust account and then disbursed them to an
appropriate third party for investment of the funds in compliance with the court's order.
12.
The $2,148.50 disbursed from the investment account for LC to Defendant
was not held in trust for LC, was not disbursed to LC, was not invested for LC, and was
not .otherwise used for her benefit.
13.
The endorsement "for deposit only" stamp on the back of the cancelled
check for the $2,J 84.50 is not entirely legible, but indicates it was deposited into an
account at First Citizens Bank associated with Defendant's law practice. It cannot be
asccltained whether the stamp was for deposit into Defendant's operating account or trust
account.

lhe North Carolina State Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 2 of12

14.
The financial institution at which Defendant maintained her operating and
trust accounts no longer had records from 2004 when in 2013 the State Bar was contacted
and commenced its' investigation into what occurred with these funds.
15.
Defendant maintains a client ledger card system for funds deposited into
her trust account for clients. Defendant has no card or other record showing any deposit
or maintenance of $2, \84.50 for LC in either trust account.
16.
Examination of her trust account records an'anged by Defendant while the
State Bar's investigation was pending did not identify any funds being maintained for LC
in Defendant's trust accounts for the time period examined, 2008-2013.
17.

Defendant reimbursed LC for the $2,148.50 in about April 2014.

18.

In the course of the investigation concerning LC's funds, the State Bar

examined .records for De-fe.ndanCs 'operating and trust' ac~ounts for the

p~rjod

of 2008 -

2013. The following deficiencies in Defendant's handling of entrusted funds and
management of her trust accounts were identified:
a.

Failure to maintain a general ledger and compare the general ledger
balance with the adjusted bank statement balance and with the sum of
client ledger balances on a quarterly basis;

b.

Failure to maintain sufficient funds in her trust account for the .cJient
balances shown in her records;

c.

Deposit of mixed funds by credit card into her operating account, with
subsequent transfer of the entrusted fund component amount into her trust
account;

d.

Disbursement of funds from trust accounts to third parties for clients for
whom she had no funds in the trust account or in excess of funds in the
trust account for the client;

e.

Payment of bank charges from entrusted funds in the trust account;

f.

A $300.00 payment for a personal line of credit from a trust sccount.

19.

Defendant routinely reviewed her trust account and operating account
bank statements.
20.
Defendant identified the $300.00 payment for her personal line of credit
from her trust accolmt and reimbill'sed the tmst account prior to examination by the State
Bal'.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

The North Carolina State Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 3 of12

.'

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28{b){2) as follows:

.i

t

a. By failing to ensure entrusted funds received for LC were deposited into her
trust account and maintained in trust for LC unless and until disbursed to LC
or on LC's behalf, Defendant failed to deposit entrusted funds in a trust
account in violation of Rule 1.l5-2(b) and failed to propcrly maintain
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (m);
b. By failing to ensure the funds required by court order to be invested for LC
were in fact invested anel remained invested, Defendant failed to comply with
the cOUlt's order approving LC's settlement in violation of Rule 8.4(d);

I.

c. By failing to compare her general ledger balance with the adjusted bank
balance and the total of client balances for her trust accounts on a quarterly
basis, Defendant failed to conduct the requisite quarterly reconciliations in
violation of Rule 1.15-3 (d)(1 );
d. By disbursing funds from her trust accounts for clients for whom she held no
flUIds in the trust account or in excess of the funds held in the trust account for
the client, Defendant failed to maintain other entrusted funds in trust in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and improperly disbursed entrusted fimds for the
benefit of recipients other than the legal or beneficial owner of the funds in
violation of Rule 1.15-20) and (m);
e. By failing to maintain sufficient funds in her trust account for her clients,
Defendant failed to properly maintain entrusted funds in violation of Rule
1.15-2(a);
f. Through payment of bank charges and a personal line of credit payment from
her trust account, Defendant failed to maintain entrusted funds in violation of
Rule 1.15-2( a), and improperly disbursed entrusted funds for the benefit of
herself or recipients other than the legal or beneficial owner of the funds in
violation of Rule 1.15-2(j) and (m); and
g. By depositing mixed funds into her operating accalmt, Defendant failed to
deposit mixed funds into her trust account in violation of Rule 1.15-2(b) and
(g).

The North Carolina Slate Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 4 of12

I
f

I
!

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
D\\l'ing the course of her practicing, including in 2004, Defendant utilized
assistants in depositing and disbursing entrusted funds and in maintaining records for her
trust account. There were times when Defendant relied on her assistants to manage the
ttust account in lieu ofpersonaUy reviewing the records.
2.
When LC's mother approached Defendant in 2011 concerning LC's funds,
Defendant provided LC's mother with inaccurate information regarding case
documentation and what had occurred with the funds, until Defendant was able to obtain
from Cape Securities the cancelled check showing .that LC's funds had been sent to
Defendant.
3.
Defendant failed to ensure that LC's funds were properly handled and
remained properly invested, impairing her client's goal of recovering compensation along
with any earned interest or dividends as applicable from the investment ordered by the
cowt while she was a minor.
4.
Defendant's failme to ensmc appropriate handling of LC's funds and her
inaccmate responses when approached by LC's mother about the funds caused frustration
and distress to LC and LC's mother and negatively inipacted their perception of the
profession.
5.
The public is at risk and the public's perception of the profession is
negatively impacted when an attorney fails to properly handle entrusted funds.
6.
Defendant reimbursed LC for the amount the cancelled check showed had
been sent to Defendant for Le.
7.

Defendant has no prior discipline.

8.

Defendant has been practicing law for 40 years.

9.
Defendant.

There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive

011

the part of

10.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
,disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 5 of 12

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regm'ding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

i

1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB § .01l4(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the. following factor warrants suspension:
(a)

Negative impact of Dettmdant's actions on client's or public's perception
of the Jegalucofession; and

(b)

Impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the
representation.

3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code I B § .0 lI4(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
4.
TIle Hearing Panel has considered all ofthe factors enumerated in 27 N.C.
Admin. Code JB § .01 l4(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
. Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

No prior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;

(c)

Timely good faith efforts to rectify the conseqllences of the Rule
violatiolls;

(d)

Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude tnwm'd the proceedings;

(e)

Defendant has practiced law for 40 years.

5.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.
6.
Defendant's failure to ensure appropriate handling of LC's funds caused
significant harm to a client.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page60f12

I

I

i

7.
Defendant's failure to properly maintain and handle entrusted funds in her
trust accounts caused potential significant hatm to her clients and the public.
8.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would.not be sufficient discipline because 9f
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients; The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to aclmowledge the seriousness of the violations committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
9.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension with conditions is both necessary and sufficient to adequately protect
.
the public.
'.' O.
For tbese reaspns. this Hearing Paiid finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, and based upon the consent ofthe
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendant Thomasine E. Moore is hereby suspended fi'olll the practice of
law for three years. This suspension is stayed immediately, as set forth in, and subject to
the terms of, paragraph 3 below.
2.
Defendant is taxed with the costs of this action as assessed by the
Secretary. Defendant shall pay the costs within thilty days of service of the statement of
costs upon her.
3.
The three-year suspension is stayed for a period of three years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
(a)

Within 3D days of the effective date of this order, Defendant shall
establish procedures to ensure that client funds are appropriately
maintained and disbursed and that monthly and quarterly reconciliations
of her trust accounts are properly conducted. If non-attorney assistants
andlor a CPA will be used to assist with these tasks, Defendant shall
establish procedures for personal review and supervision. No later than
30 days fi'om the effective date of this order, Defendant shall submit these
procedures to the Office of Counsel. Defendant shall make any
adjustments required by the Office of Counsel to ensure compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct;

The North Carolina Stale Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 70f12

I

I
r

!

- (b)

Defendant shaH provide three-way quarterly reconciliations for all trust
accounts from January 1, 2014 through the end of the calendar quarter in
which this order is entered, along with the corresponding client ledgers for
all clients with funds in the trust" accounts during that period, ledger for
any personal funds maintained in-the trust accounts for banIc or credit card
fees, trust account ledgers, and the bank statements, cancelled checks, and
deposit slips for each month in the quarter. These reconciliations and
corresponding documents shall be provided by the 15'h day of the month
immediately following the end of the calendar quarter in which this order
is entered (for example, if this order is entered in the second calendar
quarter of 2015, quarterly reconciliation documents for January 1, 2014
throngh June 30, 2015 would be due by July 15,2015.)

,(~)

- - Each montb during the ,lay, Defendanfshull provide the-Office of Counsel
of the State Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State
Bar l.awver's Trust Account Handbook for all trust accounts maintained
by lieI'. befendam shall provide the three-way reconciliation report, client
ledgers for all clients with funds in her trust accounts dW'ing that month,
ledger for any personal funds maintained in the trust accounts for banIc or
credit card fees, trust account ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled
checks, and deposit slips for each month. Defendant shall also provide
documentation showing she followed the procedures established under
paragraph (a) above. These documents are due on the 15'h day of the
following month (for example, the three-way reconciliation for the month
ofJanuary would be due on February IS);

(d)

(e)

Each quarter, Defendant shall have a CPA audit all trust accounts and
prepare an audit report. Defendant will be responsible for any associated
costs. The CPA in this audit shall assess whether Defendant has present in
the hust account(s) the client fill1ds she should be maintaining for her
clients at that time, as well as Defendant's compliance with Rule 1.15-2
and Rule -1.15-3, The CPA in this audit shall assess all items in the CPA
Report Template which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendant,
and the CPA may utilize the CPA Report Template to make his or her
report. The quarterly audit reports fi'om the CPA at'r~ due nd later than 30
days aftel' the end orthe quarter -- fil!: example, the CPA audit for the tIrst
qumter of the calendar year (.January, February, and March) is due on
April 30. The first quarter to be audited shall be the calendar quarter
immediately subsequent to the calendar quarter in which this order is
entered;
If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report

01' the CPA audit
reveals any deviation fro111 Defendant's obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendant shall take remedial action within ten days of the
date of the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall

The North Carolina State Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 8 of12

I
I
I

j
I

'.

provide documentation showing the remedial action to the 'State Bar
within two days of the date ofthe remedial action;
(f)

Defendant shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel to
provide any information regarding her trust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to
obtain information directly from any bank in which Defendant maintains a
trust account, by the deadline stated in the request;

(g)

Defendant shall complete four hours of continuing legal education in the
area of trust account management approved by the Office of Counsel of
the State Bar. At least one such session shall be taken before the end of
. the calendar quarter (I.e., by March 30, June 30, etc.) immediately
subsequent to the calendar quarter in which this order is entered and at
leasl one such. sCBsiorr shall be a CLE imlght by the Trust Account
Compliance Counsel for the NOlth Carolina State Bar. Defendllllt shaH
provide written proof of successful completion of the CLE courses to the
State Bar within ten days of completing the courses;

(h)

Defendant shall keep t11e North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised· of her current physical business address (not a Post
Oftice box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notity the Bar
of any change in address within ten days of such change;

(i)

Defendant shall accept alI certified mail from the State Bar sent to the
address on record with the Membership Department of the NOlth Carolina
State Bar;

(j)

Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
t11erein wit11 full and complete responses and all requested documentation;

(k)

Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;

(I)

Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fund, and any other
related dues, fees, and/or costs by the applicable deadline;

(m)

Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the stay;

(n)

Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of NOlth Carolina or of
t11e United States during the period of the stay; and

.. '..... .

. The North Carolina State Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 9 of 12

(0)

Defendant paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary within thirty days idler the statement of costs and fees was
served upon her.

4. .
Unless Defendant's obligations Imder this Order are modified by further
order of the DRC, Defendant's obligations under this Order end three years from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or proceedings pending alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to
§ .0114(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DRC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. If a motion
or proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the
suspension -is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise
have telminated, the DRC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the three year suspension in whole or in pm1 if it finds that any of
the crYii(iitions of the stay have not been met. -The stal' of the suspensii)J) and -Defendant's
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
such pending motion or proceeding.
5.
If during the stay oj'the suspension Defendant fails to comply with any
one or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension may be lifted
as provided in § .OlI4(x) of the North Carolina State Bm' Discipline and Disability Rules.
6.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the- suspension is activated for
any reason, Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving the activated snspension
by tiling a petition pursuant to § .0125 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and
'Disability Rules demonstrating compliance by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
with the requirements therein as well as the tollowing requirements:
(a)

Defendant properly wound .downher law practice and complied with the
terms of 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter J, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

(b)

Defendant completed four hours of continuing legal education in the area
of trust account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar, including at least one CLE by the Trust Account Compliance
Counsellor the North Carolina State Bal'. within the sL'( months
immediately preceding the l1ling of the petition for reinstatement;

(c)

Defendant established procedllres by which she personally reconciles her
trust accounts or by which she personally supervises any CPA or nonattomey assistant who she utilizes to. reconcile her trust accounts.
Defendant shall submit these procedures to the Office of Counsel 30 days
prior to the filing of the petition for reinstatement. Defendant shall have
made any adjustments required by the Office of COlIDSe1 to ensure
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and provided any
corrected procedures with the petition;

The North Carolina State Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 10 of12

'.

'.

(d)

Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of
her CUlTent information for her physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of her
suspension;

(e)

Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the adm:ess
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period ofthe suspension;

(I)

Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the N0l1h Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of her suspension;

(g)

Defendant is in compliance with all continning education and membership·
obligations at the time of the t1ling of her petition for reinstatement;

(h)

Detendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period of the suspension;

(il

Defendant did not violate any laws ohhe State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the suspension; and

G)

Defendant paid all costs and fees of this disciplinary proceeding as
.assessed by the Secretary by the date of the filing of her petition for
reinstatement.

6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina Stale Bar Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension are satisfied.

2'_'::(33wiili-,,_e_~5~~thce::r

::;;Htea::::r:in::g_p_a_n_el_m_e_m_b_e_f_s,_th_i_s_th_e

arbara B. Weyer
Chair, Disciplin
Hearing Panel

The North Carolina Slate Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore
Order of Discipline

Page 11 of12

";,

•

l'

CONSENTED TO BY:
..

J.~~

...

~••••_ _ _ _ _

J<;pl'lj:ftfr!Lpo;t~;:····----··

.....----counsel for Plaintiff

~£L~.
__ ~
Thomasine R Moore

Date

Defendant

The North Carolina State Bar v. Thomasine E. Moore

Order of Discipline

Page 12 of12

