BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Van N.Johnson,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
06G02 19

1
1
)

CENSURE

1
1

On January 18,2007 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by S. L.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State

Bar,the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.

-

A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant h m to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar,it is now my duty to issue this censure.

Ln September 2004 you had a consultation with Mrs. S. L. regarding her marital problems. She
specifically asked you about taking her children out of state and you gave her advice on that topic. In
March 2005 you beganto represent Mrs. S. L.'s husband, Mr. R. E., regarding divorce and custody
issues and in his pursuit of an ex parte custody order against Mrs. S. L., citing Mrs. S. L.'s flight to
another state. You did not obtain informed consent in writing fi-om either party. This constituted a
conflict of interest in violation of Rule 1.18(c) and (d) of the Revised Rules of Professiond Conduct.
Before she left the state, Mrs. S. L. filed a domestic violence protective order against your client.
Mrs. S. L.'s DVPO was dismissed for lack of prosecution, however you filed a complaint for custody and
other issues several days before that dismissal without mentioning the pending action. Three days after

Mrs. S. L.'s DVPO was dismissed, you applied for an ex-parte custody order on your client's behalf
without informing the judge of Mrs. S. L.'s recent action. Your failure to disclose pertinent facts violated
Rules 3.3(d) and 8.4(c).

In your response to this grievance, you told the Grievance Committee that Mrs. R. L.'s DVPO
was dismissed before you sought emergency custody. You did not tell the Committee that your
complaint for custody had been fiIed while the DVPO was pending. You also led the Committee to
believe you consulted the North Carolina State Bar about the potential conflict in this matter at or near
the time the conflict arose, when ,in fact, you had called the Bar for advice about a different case at a
previous time. This conduct violated Rule 8. l (a) and 8.4(c).
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.
?

Done and ordered, this

%'L
day of

[y

c,k,C

2007.

James R. Fox, Chair
Grievance Committee
The North Carolina State Bar

