~\fI4~i5"1S;1

,,~

{p
{].>
STATE OF NORTH CAROLIN O:l~"
~~,."..,.
0
BEFORE THE
CO f::)
u>~PLl '"'-' RY HEARING COMMISSION
I{~""
'"
OF THE
"V
j), NO~; CAROLINA STATE BAR
WAKE COUNTY
~ 1':
15 DHC 20
L

C

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE
'If.
Plainti

v.

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

CHRISTINE C. MUMMA, Attorney,
Defendant

This matter was heard on II January - 14 January 2016 by a hearing panel of
the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of Fred M. Morelock, Chair, Beverly T.
Beal, and Bradley Lail. Leanor Bailey Hodge and Maria J. Brown represented Plaintiff,
the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Christine C. Mumma, was represented by
James P. Cooney, III, Bradley J. Bannon, Alan M. Schneider, and Joseph B. Cheshire, V.
Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel hereby
makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar (US tate Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated
thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Christine C. Mumma ("Defendant" or "Mumma"), was
admitted to the North Carolina State Bar on 20 March 1999 and is an attorney at law
subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of Professional Conduct of the North Carolina
State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Mumma was actively
engaged in the practice of law and served as Executive Director and legal counsel for the
North Carolina Center on Actual Innocence (hereafier uNCCAI") in Durham County,
North Carolina.
4.
In August 1978, Joseph Sledge (USledge") was convicted of two counts of
second degree murder in Stale v. Sledge, Columbus County Superior Court case nos. 78
CRS 2415-2416. Sledge's convictions were for thc murders of Josephine and Aileen
Davis ("Davis crime").

5.
The physical evidence introduced by the State at Sledge's trial to connect
him to the Davis crime included presumptively African-American pubic hairs located on
the exposed abdomen and forehead of Aileen Davis. An FBI hair analysis expert testified
that the hair taken from Ms. Davis's body was "microscopically alike in all respects to
some of the hairs comprising the known pubic hair sample from [Sledge]."

6.
DNA testing of evidence collected from crime scenes was not available
when Sledge was convicted in 1978.
7.
In later years, DNA testing of crime scene evidence became prevalent, and
Sledge began making requests to have the Davis crime scene evidence tested for DNA.
8.
In June 2003, Sledge obtained an order directing any state agency involved
in the investigation of the Davis crime to search for evidence collected from the Davis
crime scene; to arrange for DNA testing of whatever evidence could be located; and,
regarding any evidence that could not be located, to submit· an affidavit to the court
explaining why. For years, no state agency responded to that order.
9.
court order.

Sledge contacted the NCCAI for assistance with enforcement of the 2003

10.
In 2004, NCCAI agreed to assist Sledge, and Mumma assumed
responsibility for Sledge's case on behalf of NCCAI. NCCAI continued to pursue the
location and testing of evidence from the Davis crime scene.
11.
In 2009 and 2010, partial DNA profiles on the victims' clothing were
identified through testing. The results excluded Sledge.
12.
In August 2012, the hairs collected from Aileen Davis's body and
introduced as physical evidence tying Sledge to the Davis crime were located. Pursuant
to previously entered court orders, NCCAI arranged for the hairs to be provided to DNA
experts, who then identified the hairs most likely to have been introduced against Sledge
at trial for testing. The State consented to the transfers necessary to perform this testing.
13.
In December 2012, the results of the DNA tests of those hairs revealed that
the hairs did not belong to Sledge.
14.
On 5 December 2012, Mumma began communicating directly with Jon
David, the District Attorney for the 13th Prosecutorial District ("David"), about pursuing
post-conviction relief for Sledge. Mununa provided David with various case documents
and offered to provide copies of all of her privileged correspondence with Sledge and
NCCAl's entire case file.
15.
In February 2012, after initially meeting with Mumma to discuss the
details of Sledge's claims of actual innocence, David sought and obtained assistance from
State Bar v. Mumma
15 DHC20
Page 2 of8

the SBI to assist the District Attorney's Office in its independent investigation of
Sledge's claims.
16.
On 25 March 2013, Mumma filed a Motion for Appropriate Relief
("MAR") for Sledge.
17.
Mumma believed that filing the MAR was necessary to further the goals of
her representation of Sledge.
18.
David, on behalf of the State of North Carolina, opposed several of the
claims advanced on Sledge's behalf in the MAR, including on grounds of procedural
default, and argued that a hearing be held as soon as possible on the others.
19.
On 6 May 2013, Mumma provided to the North Carolina Innocence
Inquiry Commission ("NClIC") an Initiation of a Claim and Consent to Investigation,
Authorization and Release of Files, and Commission Questionnaire in support of a claim
of factual innocence on behalf of Sledge. That same day, on behalf of Sledge, Mumma
filed a motion to hold the MAR in abeyance in favor of the completion of a more
thorough investigation by NCllC.
20.
David, on behalf of the State of North Carolina, objected to Sledge's
abeyance motion and requested a hearing on Sledge's MAR as soon as possible.
21.
NCIIC.

By letter dated 20 May 2013, Mumma formally referred Sledge's case to

22.
on Sledge.

On 21 May 2013, Mumma provided NClIC with a copy of NCCAI's file

23.

NCllC accepted Sledge's claim and opened an investigation of the case.

On 11 July 2013, Hon. Douglas B. Sasser, Senior Resident Superior Court
24.
Judge for the 13th Judicial District, held a status hearing on Sledge's MAR. At the end
of the hearing, Judge Sasser entered a 90-day abeyance, indicating the following: "If for
some reason things drag out, I can rehear arguments and if all the evidence is available
that the Court needs to hear to make ... an informed, intelligent decision in this matter,
this Court will schedule a date for hearing."
25.
On \3 September 2013, by consent of the parties, Judge Sasser extended
the abeyance until 13 January 2014, "at which time [the Court) will further evaluate
progress made by [NCllC)."
26.
Representatives of the District Attorney's Office, NCllC, and NCCAI all
believed that it would assist the investigation of Sledge's innocence claim to obtain
evidence that showed that the DNA of others, such as alternate suspects, could be linked
to items recovered from the Davis crime scene.
State Bar v. Mumma
15 DHC20
I>age 3 of8

27.
Based on documents from the initial law enforcement investigation file
identifYing them as possible suspects, Mumma considered R. Smith and his brother J.
Smith ("Smith brothers") to be possible suspects in thc Davis crime and thus sought to
obtain their DNA so that it could be tested against DNA recovered from the Davis crime
scene.
2S.
Mumma communicated with the District Attorney's Office a minimum of
five times with requests to obtain a known DNA sample from the Smith brothers, or a
maternal relative of the Smith brothers, so that it could be tested against DNA recovered
from the Davis crime scene.
29.

The District Attorney's office never obtained the sample.

30.
On S October 2013, in an email copied to David, Mumma asked NCIIC
whether NCIlC had obtained a DNA sample from a Smith family member. Latcr that
day, NCIIC informed Mumma that it had not obtained a DNA sample from a Smith
family member and could not confirm when (or even it) they would do so.
On IS October 2013, NCIIC Associate Director Sharon Stellato
31.
("Stellato") sent an email to Mumma and David indicating that that Commission had
scheduled another case for hearing in December 2013. Stellato's email continued: "I
wanted to inform you both of this because it will likely impact our investigation of the
Sledge case. We are not, at this time, placing any case on hold. But, preparing for
hearings is very time intensive and our time spent on other active investigations will
decrease. Both Lindsey and I are also co-leads on the case scheduled for hearing."
32.
Mumma had become aware that the Smith brothers had a maternal-side
. sister, M. Andrus ("Andrus"), who lived in North Carolina.
33.
Mumma believed that, as a maternal relative of the Smith brothers,
Andrus's DNA could be sufficient to link the Smith brothers to evidence from the Davis
crime scene and thus strengthen Sledge's claims of innocence and his Motion for
Appropriate Relief.
34.

Accordingly, Mumma sought to obtain a DNA sample from Andrus.

35.
On 23 October 2013, Mumma and NCCAI employee M. Evans went to
Andrus's home in an effort to obtain a DNA samplc from her.
36.
Mumma and Evans identified themselves as Joseph Sledge's attorneys and
asked Andrus if they could speak with her about the Davis crime.
37.
Andrus invited Mumma and Evans into the home and spent about 45
minutes speaking to them.
3S.
During the meeting, Mumma asked Andrus to provide a voluntary DNA
sample. Andrus expressed concern that law enforcement could tamper with DNA
State Bar v. Mumma
15 DHC20
Page 4 of8

evidence and that Mumma was looking for a "scapegoat." Mumma denied that she was
looking for a scapegoat and told Andrus that giving a DNA sample could "eliminate her
family as suspects."
39.
Andrus declined to give Mumma a DNA sample on October 23rd and
indicated that she wanted to speak with other members of her family before making her
final decision on the matter. Mumma knew when she left the meeting that Andrus had
refused to provide a DNA sample.
40.
When she left Andrus's home, Mumma inadvertently took with her a halfempty water bottle.
41.

When Mumma arrived at her car, she saw that she had left her water bottle

in her car and had not brought it into the Andrus residence. At that moment, Mumma
realized the water bottle did not belong to her.
42.
Mumma decided not to take the water bottle she took out of the Andrus
home back to Ms. Andrus. Instead, Mumma decided to take the water bottle with her to
contemplate whether to submit it for DNA analysis.

43. . When Mumma returned to her office on the 23'd, she contacted a DNA
testing lab with which she had previously worked and obtained instructions on how to
properly preserve the water bottle so that DNA could be retrieved from it.
44.
The next day, Andrus called Mumma. During that conversation, Andrus
informed Mumma that Andrus's family did not want her to provide a DNA sample to
Mumma.
45.
After Andrus told Mumma that she did not want her DNA tested, Mumma
decided to submit the water bottle for testing.
46.
On 24 October 2013, Mumma submitted the water bottle to Mitotyping
Technologies with hopes that Smith family DNA could be recovered from it and
compared to the mitochondrial DNA profile from the Davis crime scene evidence.
On I November 2013, Mumma received conlirmation from the lab that it
47.
was able to obtain DNA from the water bottle Mumma had taken from the Andrus
residence, and the DNA obtained from the water bottle was not consistent with the
mitochondrial DNA profile from the Davis crime scene evidence.
48.
After learning that the mitochondrial DNA profile obtained from the water
bottle was inconsistent with the mitochondrial DNA from the Davis crime scene
evidence, Mumma sought to determine whether the DNA on the water bottle could have
been contributed by someone matemally unrelated to the Smith brothers. Accordingly,
Mumma contacted Andrus by phone. Mummp, stated to Andrus that she was calling to

State Bar v. Mumma

IS DHC 20
Page 5 of8

confinn that Andrus had received and reviewed documents that Mumma had emailed to
her.
49.
After chatting with Andrus briefly, Mumma inquired of Andrus as to
whether Andrus's daughters who were present in the home during the October 23,d
interview were her biological children, in an effort to detennine whether the results of the
water bottle DNA analysis would be sufficient to rule out the Smith brothers as
perpetrators of the Davis crime. Mumma then inquired further of Andrus as to whether
anyone other than Andrus and her daughters had been in the home during the interview.
Andrus infonned Mumma that her nephew and someone else might have been in the
home during the interview.
50.
Mumma concluded her call with Andrus by again asking Andrus to
provide a DNA sample. Mumma did not mention to Andrus that she had retained a water
bottle from inside Andrus's home and had it analyzed, or that DNA from the water bottle
was inconsistent with the DNA from the Davis crime scene evidence.
On 4 November 2013, Mumma sent an email to NCIIC staff and David
51.
infonning them that she had submitted a water bottle that came from an unknown source
within the Andrus home to Mitotyping for DNA analysis, and reiterating that she still
believed that getting a reliable DNA sample from a maternal relative of the Smith
brothers was an important investigative step in the Sledge case. Attached to the same
email, Mumma also provided NCIlC staff and David with memos of her interactions with
Andrus.
52.
In December 2013, the District Attorney's Office agreed to hold the MAR
in abeyance for the duration ofNCIIC's investigation of Sledge's claim.
53.
In October 2014, NCIIC obtained a non-testimonial order from the court
compelling a member of the Smith family to provide a DNA sample. NCIIC obtained a
DNA sample from another sibling of the Smith brothers, a brother, which showed that the
Smith brothers' DNA was not a match to evidence from the Davis crime scene.
54.
In December 2014, NCIIC held a hearing on Sledge's claim of factual
innocence. At the conclusion of this hearing, NCIIC unanimously concluded that there
was sufficient evidence of factual innocence to merit judicial review and referred
Sledge's case for hearing before a three-judge panel.
55.
On 23 January 2015, David agreed to a finding of actual innocence and
joined in the defense motion to dismiss with prejudice the murder charges against Sledge,
and Sledge was exonerated.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the
following;
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
State Bar v. Mumma
15 DHC 20
Page 6 or8

1. All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendant, Christine C. Mumma.
2. Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
a) By retaining the water bottle, after inadvertently taking it from
Andrus's home without her permission, and then having DNA
recovered from the bottle compared to the Davis crime scene evidence
against Andrus's wishes that her family's DNA remain private,
Mumma used methods of obtaining evidence that violated the legal
rights of a third person, Andrus, in violation of Rule 4.4(a),
specifically the right to privacy recognized by the civil law of North
Carolina.
3. The allegation of violation of Rule 8.4(c) - engaging in conduct involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation - was not proven by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence.
4. The allegations of violation of Rule 8.4(d) - engaging in conduct
prejudicial to the administration of justice - were not proven by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence.

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and the
consent of the parties the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1. The discipline to be imposed in this matter is an admonition. An
admonition, which is the least serious form of discipline authorized, is imposed in cases
in which an attorney has committed a minor violation of the Rules of Professional
Conduct.

2. Defendant, Christine C. Mumma, is hereby admonished by the
Disciplinary Hearing Commission for her professional misconduct.
3. Each party shall bear her/its own costs in this matter.

J>igned by the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members this
theJITitayof M M<.!.\...
,2016.

State Bar v. Mumma
15 DHC20
Page 7 01'8

-&:.~

\1\\ 6

__
.
____
1>...!..-\

Fred M. Morelock., Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

State Bar v. Mumma
15 DHC 20
Page 8 of8

