~~,

s.r'\'l'l :J} I{{- :J
. p,~~

STATEOFNORTHCAROLINA~':iY
:;;-j
~'-J

DfO
I"

c~b

1l

BEFORETHE

<J'lMSCI~INARY
HEARING COMMISSION
''If<1,
~
~.OF THE

r'ilS
\~~'.
i)-DHa ~.', TH CAROLINA STATE BAR

l~

WAKE COUNTY

"/"~
6'

t,.

,4\'
'r~'-:::\

~:;',
,..r')?-;

;;;
\~)

18 RD 2

.

IN THE MATTER OF THE PETITION1r~IC.~ \~\ \; .
REINSTATEMENT TO ACTIVE STATUS
ORDER RESTORING MEMBER TO ACTIVE
FROM DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS
OF:
STATUS
ELISABETH MURRAY-OBERTEIN,
PETITIONER

This matter was heard on September 26,2018 and November 5, 2018 by a
Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission composed of David W. Long,
Chair, Stephanie N. Davis, and Cindy L. Marrelli upon a petition of Elisabeth MurrayObertein seeking to be restored to active status as a member of the North Carolina State
Bar. Petitioner, Elisabeth Mun'ay-Obertein, represented herself. Mary D. Winstead
appeared as counsel for the North Carolina State Bar.
Based on the petition and the evidence presented at the hearing, the Hearing Panel
hereby makes by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1. Elisabeth Murray-Obertein ("Murray-Obertein") was admitted to practice
law in North Carolina on March 20, 2004.
2.
From 2015 until 2017, Murray-Obertein was engaged in the private practice
of law as a sole practitioner in Hendersonville, Henderson County, North Carolina.
3. In January 2017, Murray-Obertein became ill and sought the assistance of
the Lawyers' Assistance Program ("LAP") who recommended that she consider taking
secured leave.
4.

Murray-Obertein did take secured leave but continued to be very ill.

5. In April 2017, Murray-Obertein was having gastrointestinal issues, was
malnourished, and could not concentrate on her cases.
6.
In April 2017, Murray-Obertein contacted the State Bar about transferring
to disability inactive status.
7. The court appointed a trustee to wind down Murray-Obertein's law practice
in May 2017.
8. In early May, MUlTay-Obertein sought treatment at the Mayo Clinic in
Jacksonville, Florida where she was hospitalized for approximately 5 days.

In re: Murray-Obertein Reinstatement, 18 RD 2
Page 1 of5

9. By Consent Order filed June 29, 2017, Murray-Obertein was transferred to
disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0118(b).
10. Murray-Obertein's transfer to disability inactive status was based upon her
suffering from physical and mental health conditions which significantly impaired her
professional performance as an attorney.
11. Murray-Obertein did not have health insurance and did not seek medical
care from the time she was placed on disability inactive until November 2017.
12. During the time she has been on disability inactive status, Murray-Obertein
has rested and tried to regain her physical strength.
13. Murray-Obertein has recovered from the physical condition that caused her
to be hospitalized at the Mayo Clinic.
14. In 2014, Murray-Obertein was diagnosed as being opioid dependent and was
involved in a step-down program for opioids.
15. Murray-Obertein testified that she became opioid dependent after being
prescribed opioids.
16. Murray-Obertein testified that she has a medical condition that prevents her
from taking NSAIDS or ibuprofen for acute pain.
17. In early 2017, at her first visit at a medical practice, a physician
recommended that Murray-Obertein participate in the suboxone program, a program used
to treat opioid addiction.
18. Murray-Obertein was focused on her physical health issues related to her
inability to eat and chose not to participate in the program. She testified that she opted to
be weaned from opioids instead of being placed on another medication that she could
become dependent upon.
19. During the time period surrounding her transfer to disability inactive status,
Murray-Obertein was physically dependent on opioids.
20. In 2018, Murray-Obertein has continued to be prescribed opioids for various
acute temporary health issues, including dental procedures, and was prescribed
hydrocodone as recently as the day before this hearing after a dental procedure.
21. Murray-Obertein reported to physicians at the Mayo Clinic in 2017 that she
smoked marijuana before every meal. She testified that this was to prevent vomiting.
22. According to Murray-Obertein, she was using marijuana while she was sick
but no longer does so.
23. Murray-Obertein has unfinished client matters to which she must attend.
In re: Murray-Obertein Reinstatement, 18 RD 2
Page 2 ofS

24. It is necessary for the protection of the public that Murray-Obertein: 1)
obtain a mental health evaluation; 2) abide by all treatment recommendations of the
evaluating mental health provider; 3) submit to random drug testing for the presence of
opioids and illegal substances; 4) take a Law Office Management CLE course; and 4)
have a practice monitor if she engages in the private practice of law.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the
following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission and
the Hearing Panel has jurisdiction over Petitioner, Elisabeth Murray-Obertein, and the
subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Murray-Obertein is no longer disabled within the meaning of27 N.C.
Admin. Code IB.OI03(19) and is fit to resume the practice of law.
3.
Pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB.0129(d), the hearing panel may
impose reasonable conditions on a lawyer's reinstatement from disability inactive status
when it concludes such conditions are necessary for the protection of the public.
4.
The conditions set fOlih in paragraph 24 of the Findings of Fact above are
reasonable and necessary for the protection of the public.
5.
Murray-Obertein should be transferred from disability inactive status to
active status, upon the conditions set forth below.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the Hearing
Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER
1.
Within 30 days of service of this order upon her, Murray-Obertein shall
complete a CLE course in Law Office Management approved by the State Bar and shall
provide to the Office of Counsel proof of completion of the course within ten days of
completion.
2.
Once Murray-Obertein has completed the Law Office Management CLE
and provided proof of completion to the Office of Counsel, Elisabeth Murray-Obertein's
license to practice law in NOlih Carolina is returned to active status provided MurrayObe1iein complies with the following conditions for one year following entry of this
order:
(a) No later than February 14,2019, Murray-Obeliein shall schedule an appointment
for an evaluation by a mental health provider approved in advance by the State
Bar Office of Counsel ("Office of Counsel") for the purpose of determining if she
has any mental or psychological impairment, addiction, personality disorder, or
In re: Murray-Obertein Reinstatement, 18 RD 2
Page 3 of5

other condition or illness and shall provide the Office of Counsel with the date of
the appointment;
(b) Murray-Obertein shall have said evaluation within 45 days after scheduling her
appointment;
(c) Murray-Obertein shall ensure that the evaluating mental health provider provides
the Office of Counsel with a copy of the evaluator's written report within 10 days
of completion of the evaluation;
(d) Murray-Obertein shall comply with all treatment recommendations of the
evaluating mental health provider;
(e) Murray-Obertein shall ensure that the mental health provider provides quarterly
written reports to the State Bar concerning Murray-Obertein's compliance with
the treatment plan, and shall affirmatively state that the provider has no concerns
regarding her ability to continue practicing law. Said reports will be due January
31,2019, April 30, 2019, July 31, 2019, and October 31,2019;
(f) Within ten days of service of this order upon her, Murray-Obertein shall execute
written releases authorizing the Office of Counsel to communicate with and
receive information from her mental health provider(s) and to obtain copies of
records relating to her compliance with the provider(s) treatment
recommendations. These releases shall not be revoked during the year following
entry of this order.
(g) Murray-Obertein shall contact FirstLab within ten days of service of this order
upon her, and make arrangements for quarterly random drug testing for the
presence of opioids and illegal substances;
(h) Murray-Obertein shall ensure that FirstLab provides written reports to the Office
of Counsel within five days of the date of the report;
(i) Murray-Obertein shall bear the expense of all treatment, counseling and drug
testing;

G) If Murray-Obertein engages in the private practice of law, she shall arrange for an
active member in good standing of the North Carolina State Bar who practices in
the county of her practice and is approved in advance by the Office of Counsel to
serve as her practice monitor. No later than 30 days from the effective date of this
order, Murray-Obertein must supply the Office of Counsel with a letter from the
approved monitoring attorney confirming his or her agreement to: (a) meet with
Murray-Obertein monthly to review her cases; (b) provide supervision to ensure
that Murray-Obertein timely and completely handles client matters; and (c)
provide written quarterly reports of this supervision to the Office of Counsel on
the following dates: January 1,2019, April 1, 2019, July 1,2019, and October 1,
2019. Murray-Obertein will be responsible for the cost, if any, charged by the
monitor for this supervision;
In I'e: MUl'l'ay-Obertein Reinstatement, 18 RD 2
Page 4 of5

(k) Murray-Obertein shall meet at least once monthly with her practice monitor, to
whom she shall report the status of all current client matters. Murray-Obertein
shall provide any additional information the practice monitor deems reasonably
necessary to ensure that Murray-Obertein is timely handling all client matters in
accord with the requirements of the Rules of Professional Conduct and the North
Carolina General Rules of Practice, and is in compliance with the trust accounting
rules;

(1) Murray-Obertein shall ensure that the practice monitor timely submits to the
Office of Counsel a written report by January 1,2019, April 1, 2019, July 1,2019,
and October 1,2019 describing his or her meetings with Murray-Obertein and
opinion of whether Murray-Obertein is in compliance with the terms of this order
and the Rules of Professional Conduct; and
(m)Murray-Obertein shall cooperate fully with the State Bar regarding any
outstanding matters from her private practice within the deadlines prescribed by
the applicable State Bar Rules and Regulations.
3.
Once Murray-Obertein provides satisfactory proof to the Office of
Counsel of her completion of the Law Office Management CLE course, she may
undertake to represent court appointed clients provided she is authorized to do so by the
appropriate authority in the county in which she seeks to represent court appointed
clients.

4.
The State Bar is authorized to provide Murray-Obertein's mental health
provider(s) with any medical records received in connection with this proceeding.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this

5.

matter.

6.

Any grievance(s) stayed pursuant to the order transferring MurrayObertein to disability inactive status are no longer stayed.
The costs of this proceeding are waived.

7.
Il __ .

t IffSign~df"(lJ.e
Yay

Chair ~~'\ consent of the oth,:,fearing Panel members this the

of_\__~
_ _ _-,--'_-->,J_____, 2018. /

-

//

tI~Ul/1

rJavid W. Long, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

/
(

In re: Murray-Obertein Reinstatement, 18 RD 2
Page 5 of5

