=
STATE OF NORTH CARO '" A
<?-

BEFORE THE
VANCE COMMITTEE CHAIR

WAKE COUNTY
IN RE:
ELISABETH MURRAY-OBERTEIN,
Attorney

CONSENT ORDER
TRANSFERRING MEMBER TO
DISABILITY INACTIVE STATUS

This matter is before the undersigned Chair of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State ·Bar pursuant to 2TN.C Admin. Code 1B § .0118(b). Brian P.D. Oten
represented the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"). Elisabeth Murray-Obeltein represented
herself. Based upon the information presented and with the consent of the member and of the
Office of Counsel, the undersigned makes the following
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
The North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar") is a body duly organized turder the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority
granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations
of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Elisabeth Murray-Obertein ("Murray-Obeltein"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar on 20 March 2004 and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney
at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the rules, regulations and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the times relevant herein, Mun·ay-Obertein was engaged in the practice of
law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Hendersonville, Henderson
County, North Carolina.

4.
Murray-Obertein currently suffers from physical and mental health conditions
which significantly impair her professional performance as an attomey.
5.

Murray-Obeltein voluntarily consents to being transferred to disability inactive

6.

The State Bar consents to Murray-Obertein's transfer to disability inactive status.

status.

Page 1 of2

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, the undersigned makes the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
There is clear, cogent and convincing evidence that Murray-Obertein is disabled
within the meaning of27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0103(19).
2.

Murray-Obertein shou ld be transferred to disability inactive status with the State

Bar.
3.
Murray-Obertein and the State Bar voluntarily consent to Murray-Obertein's
transfer to disability inactive status pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0118(b).
4.
Any pending or future grievances against Murray-Obeltein should be stayed
during the period of disability.
THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED:
1.
Elisabeth Murray-Obeltein is transferred to disability inactive status. This order
is effective upon filing.
2.
Murray-Obeltein shall not practice law in North Carolina until she is no longer
disabled and has been returned to active status as a member of the North Carolina State Bar
pursuant to the procedures set out in 27 N.C. Admin. Code IB § .0 I25(c).
3.
Any pending or future grievances against Murray-Obertein are hereby stayed
during the period of disability until such time as Murray-Obeliein returns to active status. The
State Bar may continue to investigate allegations of misconduct and preserve evidence as
necessary pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code lB § .0 11 8(e).
This, the ;). ~ay of

J\,Ui\L

,2017.

CONSENTED TO:

Brian P.D. Oten
Deputy Counsel

In Re: Murray-Obertein
Consent Order

Page 2 of2

