NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
09GOl75

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
Matthew G. Nestor,
Attorney At Law

)
)

)

REPRIMAND

)
)

On January 14, 2010 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by R. 1.
Pursuant to Section .01 I3(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infonnation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
detennine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attorney.
A reprimand is a written fonn of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential hann to a client, the administration ofjustice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was of the opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chainnan of the Grievance Committee ofthe North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
You were hired by the Executive Board ("the Board") of Carolina Place Homeowner's
Association (CPHOA) in December 2007. In February 2008, you issued an "opinion letter" to
homeowner-members of CPHOA, stating that a $20,000.00 loan obtained by the Board (without
member consent) was proper under the CPHOA bylaws. Therein, you quoted a specific section
ofthe bylaws authorizing the Board to borrow money on behalf ofthe HOA, but omitted from
the quote a provision which required consent of the members to borrow an amount greater than

15% the annual assessment. The $20,000.00 the Board had borrowed exceeded 15% of the
mmual assessment. By substituting ellipses for the portion of the bylaws that required consent of
the members for loans greater than 15% of the mmual assessment, you made a misleading
statement in violation of Rule 8.4(c). Your February 2008 letter implied that you had been asked
by the Board to issue an independent advisory opinion. 1t did not explain to the homeowners that
you represented the interests of the CPHOA acting through the Board, and not the individual
homeowners. Your letter implied to unrepresented persons that you were disinterested in
violation of Rule 4.3(b), and failed to explain the identity of your client when you lmew that the
organization's interests were adverse to the homeowners with whom you were dealing in
violation of Rule 1.13(f).
On 10 April 2008, every member of the Board resigned, leaving CPHOA without a governing
body. Although the homeowners met on 19 April 2008 and elected new Board members, you
believed that irregularities in the meeting rendered the election invalid and therefore did not
accept that the putative Board members had authority to act on behalf of CPHOA. On 2 May
2008, you received $2,037.41 ofCPHOA's funds in trust. You disbursed the entire $2,037.41 to
yourself without authorization on 2 July 2008. At that time, you had reason to believe that any
asserted entitlement to funds you received on behalf of CPHOA was likely to be disputed. By
disbursing these funds to yourself without authorization, you obtained personal benefit from
entrusted funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(j) and failed to maintain disputed funds in your trust
account in violation of Rule l.15-2(g). Because CPHOA owed you fees for significant work you
had already performed on its behalf, this unauthorized distribution (while improper) did not
constitute theft of entrusted funds.
In detennining that the public would be adequately protected by the issuance of a reprimand to
you, the Committee took into account your relative inexperience in the practice of law and the
fact that your misconduct was confined to a single matter.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. TIle Grievance COlmnittee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted January 24,2008 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to m1Y
attorney issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the mnount
of $1 00.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the II th day of May, 20 10

RGB/lr

