BEFOFE THE

NORTH CAROLINA

GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR

WAKE COUNTY

06G0223,0660302 & 0660758

IN THE MATTER OF

)

Orrin R. Robbins,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

1
1
1
1

CENSURE

On January 18,2007, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by K. O'B., L. H. and L. S.
Pursuant to section .0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of discipline depending upon the
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration of justice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.

The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.

K.O'B, filed a grievance alleging that you neglected her traffic case and failed to communicate
with her about the status of it. You accepted service of the letter of notice in this grievance on March
17,2006. You did not respond to this grievance within 15 days of receiving it. You also did not
respond when the North Carolina State Bar (hereafter, State Bar) gave you additional time to answer
this grievance.
You were subpoenaed to appear at the State Bar office and respond to the grievance. At that
time, the deputy counsel assigned to this grievance gave you an extension until June 27,2006 to
respond to K. O'B.'s grievance. You did not provide a response to the grievance by June 27,2006.
The deputy counsel gave you another cxtcnsion until July 7,2006 to respond. You did not respond by

I

the July 7 deadline, and you were subpoenaed again to the State Bar office. Prior to appearing at the
office pursuant to the subpoena, you submitted a response to Ms. O'B.'s grievance which was received
in the State Bar's office on August 2,2006. Your failure to respond promptly to Ms. K. O'B.'s
grievance violates Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
L. H. filed a grievance alleging that you neglected her traffic case and failed to communicate
with her about the status of her case. You did not appear in court on L.H.'s behalf on September 21,
2004, and as a result, she was called and failed. L. H.'s case was taken care of on November 1, 2004.
Your failure to appear in court on L.H.'s behalf violated Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of Professional
Conduct.
You received a letter of notice in L. H.'s grievance on April 19,2006. You did not respond to
L. H.'s grievance within 15 days of receiving it. By letter dated May 10,2006, you were advised that
you had not responded to L. H.'s grievance and you were given an extension to respond until May 25,
2006. When you did not respond by May 25,2006, you were subpoenaed to the North Carolina State
Bar office to respond to L. H.'s grievance. The deputy counsel then gave you another extension until
June 27,2006 to respond to the grievance. You did respond to L. He'sgrievance by June 27,2006.
The Grievance Committee found that your failure to respond promptly to L. H.'s grievance violated
Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.

L. S. filed a grievance alleging that you failed to represent him properly in his traffic case.
L.S.'s case appeared on the Durham County court docket on July 27,2005. You did not appear in court
on L.S.'s behalf and he was called and failed. L. S.'s case was disposed of on September 8,2005.
Your failure to appear on behalf of L. S. was in violation of Rule 1.3 of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
You were served with the letter of notice in this grievance on August 2, 2006. You failed to
respond to L. S.'s grievance within I 5 days of receiving it. Your State Bar councilor contacted you
about your failure to respond to this grievance. The State Bar staff was told that you would respond to
L.S.'s grievance by September 8,2006. You failed to provide a written response to L. S.'s grievance.
The Grievance Committee considered L. S.'s grievance and the other above referenced grievances at its
October 2006 meeting. The consideration of these grievances was continued until the January 2007
meeting.

On October 23,2006, the State Bar's deputy counsel told you that the grievances had been
continued to the January 2007 meeting and that you had until November 14,2006 to respond to L. S.'s
grievance. The North Carolina State Bar finally received your response to L. S.'s grievance on May 23,
2007. The Grievance Committee found your failure to respond promptly to L. S.'s grievance violated
Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefblly in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whose conduct may be relied upon without question.

In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 1981 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a

censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this action in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.

Done and ordered, this

5

day of %ewd!~-

,2007.

