'I 3

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

c ~_ I
t

C

0 0 Z 61 9

r---~

,L L '~IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE

zm3 lU,,'( 22 I\l'l 10:

SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
LlIfILE NO.: 13 M _ _ __

co"c.s.c.

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER OF
SURRENDER OF THE LAW!LICENSE
OF

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISBARMENT

MATTHEW G. NESTOR, Attorney

TIllS MATTER came before the undersigned Judge of the Superior Court of
Wake County upon the tender of surrender of his law license by Matthew G. Nestor.
Based upon the Affidavit of Surrender of Law License submitted to the Court by
Respondent, Matthew G. Nestor (hereinafter "Nestor"), the Court makes the following:

FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Nestor was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in August 2002 and
is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at law licensed to practice in North
Carolina, subject to tile rules, regulations, and Ryles 9frrgfessignal Cgnduct gf the North .
Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North Carolina.
2.
During all ofthe periods relevant hereto, Nestor was engaged in the
practice oflaw in Oak Island, North Carolina.
3.
Nestor is aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding
allegations that he knowingly prepared HUD-l Settlement Statements that did not
accurately show the disbursements in certain real estate transactions at the direction of a
third party and thus enabled others to use his services to facilitate fraud.
4.
Nestor desires to resign his license to practice law and has tendered his
license to practice law in North Carolina.
5.
Nestor's resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result
of coercion or duress. Nestor is fully aware ofthe implication of submitting his
resignation.
6.
Nestor acknowledges that the material facts upon which the investigation
is predicated are true.

1

7.
Nestor has submitted his resignation because he knows that if disciplinary
charges were predicated upon the misconduct under investigation, he could not
successfully defend against them.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, the court makes the following:

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
By knowingly preparing HUD-l Settlement Statements that did not
accurately show the disbursements in certain real estate transactions at the direction of a
third party and thus enabling others to use his services to facilitate fraud, Nestor engaged
in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c) ofthe North Carolina State Bar Rules of Professional Conduct.
2.
Nestor' misconduct constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C.
Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2).
3.
The Courts of this State have the inherent authority to take disciplinary
action against attorneys practicing therein.
4.
This Court has jurisdiction over the person of Matthew G. Nestor and of
the subject matter of this proceeding.
5.

Nestor has engaged in professional misconduct warranting disbarment.

IT IS NOW, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
1.
Carolina.

Matthew G. Nestor is DISBARRED from the practice of law in North

2.
Nestor shall comply with the provisions of27 N.C. Admin. C9de, Chapter
1, Subchapter B, Section .0124 ofthe Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and shall surrender his license and permanent membership card to the Secretary of
the North Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit reqnired by ยง .0124. Nestor shall
have thirty (30) days from the date of the entry of this order to complete the requirements
of ยง .0124.
3.
Within 15 days ofthe effective date of this Order Nestor shall provide the
State Bar with an address and telephone number at which clients seeking return of files
can communicate with Nestor and obtain such files.
4.
Nestor shall promptly return client files to clients upon request, within 5
days of receipt of such request. Nestor will be deemed to have received any such request
3 days after the date such request is sent to Nestor if the request is sent to the address
Nestor provided the State Bar pursuant to the preceding paragraph.
2

5.
Nestor shall not petition for reinstatement of his law license, and shall not
be eligible for reinstatement, until the expiration of at least five (5) years from the date of
this order.
6.
Nestor's law license shall not be reinstated until he has demonstrated by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence to the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission and the Council of the North Carolina State Bar that he has complied with
terms of this order and 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0125.
7.

The costs of this action are taxed against Nestor.

Done and Ordered this

~2_day of

r/I~

,2013.

~

Superior Court Judge Presiding

Ma ew G. Nestor
Respondent

n M. Schneider
Counsel for Respondent

3

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

IN THE GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE
SUPERIOR COURT DIVISION
FILE NO.: 13 M _ __

WAKE COUNTY
AFFIDAVIT TENDERING THE SURRENDER OF THE LICENSE OF
MATTHEW G. NESTOR

I, Matthew G. Nestor, being first duly sworn, say:
I.

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of Section .0117 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, Section .0117.

2.

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3.

I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
knowingly prepared HUD-I Settlement Statements that did not accurately show the
disbursements in certain real estate transactions at the direction of a third party and
thus enabled others to use my services to facilitate fraud.

4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.

5.

My resignation is being submitted because I know that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.
Respectfully submitted, this the

ยฃ

I,UtJJ ~. (~.

day

Of-----'~_("-'tl'-"f<_'_C2,l_"=__ _ _ 2013.

~
f

~

,

Notary Public of the County of
State of North
CarOlina, certifY that Matthew G. Nestor personally appeared before me i 'Sday, was sworn, attested that the
foregoing Affidavit is true and accurate of his own personal knowledge, and executed the foregoing Affidavit.

Thl71:b1E:u~
Notary Public

My commission expires:

{I-

3 - {3

