Al~1,~3\ 12 J {

J:~~'

;g.'};'

[~
,~~

I'''''

__
0/1'
~'l
"<.<;' ""0,/1' '

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA@:'."

~

'O~

J'

0....

-'

rn
~

co BEFORE THE
,~
L
Y HEARING COMMISSION
'\':,-:'
\P?
~
OF THE
"q:>6iOlll 0lr\ •
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
10 DHC 27

WAKE COUNTY

, .J'-

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDEROF
DISCIPLINE
AS TO
JAMIE FAYE NEWSOM

Plaintiff

v.
HOLLY C. STEVENS, PAULINE E.
MAKIA, CARMEN J. BATTLE, and
JAMIE FAYE NEWSOM, Attomeys,
Defendant

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Sharon B. Alexander, Chair, and members Harriett Smalls and
Joe Castro, pursuant to NOlih Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27, Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .01 14(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter. Defendant,
Jamie Faye Newsom ("Newsom"), was represented by Dudley A. Witt. Both Plaintiff
and Defendant Newsom stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law
recited in this consent order and to the discipline imposed. Newsom has freely and
voluntarily stipulated to tlle foregoing findings of fact and consents to the conclusions of
law and entry of the order of discipline. Newsom freely and voluntarily waives any and
all right to appeal the entry of this consent order of discipline.
This order pertains only to the claims conceming Defendant Jamie Faye Newsom
and resolves only those claims. The tenn "patiies" in this order refers to the State Bm as
Plaintiff and Jamie Faye Newsom as Defendant.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, tlle parties' stipulations offact, and with
the consent of the patiies, the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:

Findings of Fact
I.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authOlity granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations of the North Cat'olina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant Jatnie Faye Newsom ("Newsom") was admitted to the NOlih
Carolina State Bar in 2005, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attomey at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North
I

Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.
During all or part of the relevant periods refen'ed to herein, Newsom was
engaged in the practice oflaw in Fayetteville, Cumberland County, North Carolina.
4.
Newsom was properly served with process, a heming in this matter was
set, and the matter cmne before the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.
In about April 2006, Newsom purchased Holly Stevens' law practice.
Stevens' law practice included residential real estate closings. Although Newsom had no
training or experience in real property law or in closing real estate transactions, Newsom
undertook, nonetheless, to engage in this area of the practice oflaw.
6.
Newsom retained the non-attorney assistants who had previously worked
for Holly Stevens ("Stevens") to do the work for the real estate closings. Newsom relied
on Stevens' fonner staff to perfonn the work for real estate closings, including searching
title, preparing title opinions, preparing HUD-I Settlement Statements and other closing
documents, and disbursing the funds for the closings.
7.
Stevens was associated with Maurice Jenkins ("Jenkins"), who purported
to be a real estate investor. Stevens frequently closed real estate transactions involving
Jenkins and participated in purchasing and selling real property with Jenkins.
Unbeknownst to Newsom, Jenkins and Stevens engaged in fraudulent practices in these
real estate transactions.
8.
Although Newsom attended and conducted many of the closings, Newsom
failed to supervise the staff and the work done for the closings. FUlihelIDore, Newsom
failed to compare the HUD-I Settlement Statements with the actual disbursement of
funds to ensure proper disbursement of these entrusted funds. Newsom's failure to
supervise the staff and the work in these closings enabled the staff to continue to assist
Jenkins in his fi'audulent conduct, which included disguising purchases as refinances,
redirecting funds intended to pay prior mOligages to disbursements for Jenkins' benefit,
and funds not collected from borrowers at closing which had been shown as paid on the
HUD-I Settlement Statements.
9.
In the course of the closings identified in Exhibit D to the complaint, the
non-attomey assistants prepared inaccurate HUD-I Settlement Statements. They also
prepared inaccurate preliminary opinions of title which gave false information about the
record owner of the property. Newsom failed to ensure accurate HUD-I Settlement
Statements and preliminary opinions of title were prepared and submitted.
10.
Among the closings Newsom attended and conducted were closings
involving Jenkins where the HUD-I Settlement Statements showed funds due from the
buyerslbolTowers at closing. Newsom neglected to ensure these funds were collected
from the buyerslbolTowers at closing. Routinely, these amounts were deducted fi'om the
proceeds due to the sellers (typically a company associated with Jenkins) rather than
collected from the buyerslbon'owers as represented on the HUD-l Settlement Statements.
2

11.
Newsom's failure to collect funds represented on the HUD-l Settlement
Statements as received from the bon·owers resulted in lenders receiving inaccurate
infonnation on the HUD-l Settlement Statements and, in some instances, directly
violated provisions of the lenders' closing instIuctions.
12.
Exhibit D to the State Bar's complaint contains a list of real estate
transactions closed by Newsom. The transactions listed in Exhibit D provide examples of
tlle conduct described herein.
Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
Conclusions Of Law

1.
All parties are properly before tlle Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Newsom and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Newsom's conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
a) By failing to receive and disburse funds as represented on the HUD-l
Settlement Statements, Newsom failed to appropriately maintain and
disburse entIusted funds in violation of Rule US-2(a) and (m); and
b) By practicing in an area of law without sufficient training or experience
and by delegating tasks involving tlle practice of law to non-attomey
assistants without providing adequate or meaningful supervision, Newsom
handled legal matters she was not competent to handle in violation of
Rule 1.1 and failed to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the nonattorney assistants' conduct was compatible with her professional
obligations in violation of Rule S.3(b).
Upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel also enters the following:
Findings Of Fact Regarding Discipline

1.
The practice oflaw is restricted to attomeys because the advanced legal
education and training received by attomeys is necessary to effectively identifY
applicable legal requirements and obligations, to identify legal issues, and to apply the
law to each client's individual circumstance.
?
For an attorney to be able to supervise a non-attomey assistant's work, the
attol11ey must first know the applicable legal authOlities and requirements applicable to
the work bcing done. An attomey cannot effectively or appropriately supervise a nonattol11ey's work ifhe or she does not know the applicable legal authOlities or
requirements that must be satisfied through the non-attol11ey's work.

3.
Banks are not nonnally thought of as vulnerable entities. Nevertheless,
banks rely upon the closing attorney to cany out the closing in an ethical, lawful, and
proper manner. These institutions are particularly vulnerable to conduct by attomeys that
3

circumvents or facilitates others in the circumvention of safeguards employed to avoid
fraud, even if done unintentionally by attorneys who neglect to follow procedures
established by these institutions to safeguard against fraud.
4.
Newsom's obligation as closing attorney was to produce an accurate
HUD-I Settlement Statement for each transaction, to ensure that funds were received and
disbursed as authorized by the lender and to follow the lender's closing instructions.
5.
Accurate HUD-I Settlement Statements are necessary for the system of
finance in real estate to function. Lenders rely upon the HUD-I Settlement Statements to
accurately reflect the receipt and disbursement of funds in real estate closings. Lenders
rely on the enhies in line 303 of the HUD-I Settlement Statements showing payment by
the buyerslboTI'owers at closing to show the buyerslbOiTowers conhibuted their own
money to tlle transaction. Lenders rely upon such personal conhibution by the
buyerslborrowers to reduce the risk of default on the loan by the buyers/bolTowers.
Newsom's preparation and submission ofHUD-1 Settlement Statements that she knew
did not accurately show the receipt and disbursement of funds and Newsom's failure to
receive and disburse funds as reflected on the HUD-I Settlement Statements evaded the
safeguards relied upon by the lenders.
6.
Lenders provided closing instructions to Newsom, compliance with which
were a prerequisite to the lender making the loan to the borrower. Newsom's failure to
ensure compliance with each lender's closing instructions circumvented the lender's
attempt through the closings instructions to ensure the loans at issue were ones it was
willing to make. Additionally, the inaccurate preliminary opinions of title Newsom's
office provided to the title insurance companies in the purchase h'ansactions disguised as
refinance h'ansactions resulted in false infonnation on the title commitments that hid the
purchase part of the transactions from the lenders.
7.
Newsom has no prior disciplinary record concerning her license to
practice law.
8.
Newsom's inexperience in real property law prevented her from
appreciating the problems with the way real estate closings were conducted by her office.
She failed to appreciate the reliance by the lenders on tlle HUD-I Settlement Statements.
She did not understand the problems posed in the purchase transactions that were made to
look like refinances. She failed to appreciate her role and obligation to the lenders. She
failed to appreciate the necessity for total compliance with lenders' closing inshuctions.
She failed to appreciate what her role should have been in supervising her staff.
9.
Newsom fully cooperated with all inquiries made regarding these real
estate h·ansactions.
10.

Newsom has expressed remorse for her conduct.

II.
Newsom did not engage in the conduct described in the Findings of Fact
above with any dishonest or selfish motive.
4

12.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbannent, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.
Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel makes the following:

Conclusions With Respect To Discipline
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all ofthe different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B §.OI14(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factors WalTant suspension of
Defendant's license:
a) Defendant's actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession; and
b) Defendant's actions impaired her clients' ability to achieve the goals of
the representation.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
?

3.
The Hearing Panel luis considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. IB §.OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the NOlih Carolina State
Bal' and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
a) Defendant's lack of plioI' disciplinary offenses;
b) Absence of a dishonest or selfish motive;
c) Defendant engaged in multiple offenses;
d) Defendant engaged in a pattern of misconduct;
e) Defendant's full and free disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude towal'd the proceedings;
t) Defendant's remorse; and
g) The vulnerability of Defendant' s clients.
4.
Defendant's conduct, if continued or tolerated by the Bar, poses
significant potential harm to future clients.

5

5.
The Heming Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses committed by
Defendant and send the wrong message to attomeys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Heming Panel has considered lesser altematives and concludes that a
stayed suspension is necessary to ensure Newsom complies with necessary conditions to
avoid significant hann or the potential for significant harm to clients.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Newsom 's law license would not be
appropriate.

Based upon the foregoing findings of fact and conclusions oflaw and the findings
of fact and conclusion regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the parties, the
Hearing Panel enters the following:
Order Of Discipline
I.
Defendant, Jamie Faye Newsom, is hereby suspended from the practice of
law for five years, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Newsom.
2.
The five-year suspension is stayed for a period of five years as long as
Newsom complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
a. Does not engage in the practice of real propeliy law, as defined in
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, SubchapterD, Section .2102.
b. Annually submits a certification of the areas oflaw in which she
practiced for the preceding 12 months. Said certifications are due no
later than December 31 of each year of the stay;
c. Each yem' of the stay, completes 12 hours of continuing legal
education in addition to the hours required under 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter 1, SubchapterD, Section .1518. These 12 hours shall
consist of substantive education courses in the areas oflaw in which
Newsom is then currently practicing. These additional hours must be
completed within the applicable time period for completing the
continuing Icgal cducation hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code
Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .1518 each year ofthe stay and must
be reported on the annual CLE repmi fonns;
d. Each year of the stay, completes a continuing legal education course
focusing on mmlaging a law office and/or supervising non-legal
assistants. This course may be taken as part of the continuing legal
6

education hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter D, Section .1518. This course must be completed within
the applicable time period for completing the continuing legal
education hours required under 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter D, Section .1518 each year of the stay and must be
repOlied on the annual CLE repOli fonns;
e. Within the 12 months immediately preceding expiration of the stay
period, completes 6 hours of continuing legal education in real
property law. These hours mnst be focnsed on general real property
law or residential real property law, as defined in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .2102. These hours may be
taken as part ofthe continuing legal education hours required under
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .1518. These
hours must be completed within the applicable time period for
completing the continuing legal education hours required under
27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .1518 and
must be repOlied on the applicable annual CLE report fonn.

f.

Timely submits her annual CLE repOli fonn to the CLE department of
the North Carolina State Bar each year of the stay and
contemporaneously sends a copy of the CLE repOli fonn to the Office
of Counsel of the State Bar to document compliance with the above
conditions of the stay. "Timely" means by the date specified by the
CLE department as the date by which members must submit their
annual repOit forms to avoid assessment of a $75.00 late filing penalty.
Newsom must ensure the Office of Counsel receives a copy of her
annual CLE report fonn no later than IS days after it is due to the CLE
deparhnent of the State Bar each year;

g. Pays all Membership dues and Client Security Frmd assessments and
complies with all Continuing Legal Education requirements on a
timely basis;
h. An'anges for an active member of the NOlih Carolina State Bar who is
in good standing who practices law in the county in which Newsom
primarily practices and who has been approved by the NOlih Carolina
State Bar to serve as her practice monitor. The selected monitor must
agree to so serve and agree to meet with Newsom monthly to review
Newsom's cases. Each month, the monitor must go over at least one
case in detail in each area oflaw in which Newsom is practicing, with
discussion including but not limited to identification of applicable
statutory and regulatory authorities, identification of potential legal
issues, and plan of representation. Ncwsom shall come prepared each
month to discuss these topics in her cases with her practice monitor.
The monitor must submit written quarterly reports of these meetings
and discussions to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar, such reports
due on the following dates as they occur during the stay of this
7

suspension: January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. This
monitoring must occur for the duration of the stay ofthis suspension.
Newsom will pay the cost, if any, charged by the monitor. Newsom
must have made the alTangements for this monitoring attol11ey and
supplied the Office of Counsel of the State Bar with a letter from the
monitoring attol11ey continning his or her agreement to perfonn the
duties listed above no later than ninety (90) days from service of this
Order;
I.

Meets once a month with her practice monitor, to whom she will
report the status of all current client matters, cooperates with the
monitor attorney, and provides any infonnation the monitor attorney
deems reasonably necessary. Newsom shall be prepared to discuss
identification of applicable statutory and regulatory authorities,
identification of potential legal issues, and plan of representation for
each client matter;

J.

Ensures the monitOling attorney sends a Wlitten report each quarter to
the Office of Counsel of the State Bar as described above;

k. Cooperates with the Office of Counsel and makes appropriate
anangements for an altel11ate monitoring attomey if needed during the
stay of this suspension;

I.

Keeps her address ofrecord with the North Carolina State Bar current,
accepts all certified mail from the NOlih Carolina State Bar, and
responds to all letters of notice and requests for infol111ation from the
North Carolina State Bar by the deadlines stated in the
communication;

m. Does not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect
dUling the period of the stay;
n. Does not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period of the stay; and
o. Pays all costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary,
including the costs allowed by statute for the taking of her deposition,
within thirty (30) days after service of the notice of costs on her.
3.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason, the following conditions are placed upon Newsom's reinstatement to active
status. With any petition Newsom files for reinstatement to active practice, Newsom
must demonstrate by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence that she complied with each
of the following conditions:
a.

Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the
NOlih Carolina State Bar no later than 30 days from the effective date
of the order activating her suspension;
8

b. Complied with all provisions of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the N.C. State Bar Discipline & Disability
Rules on a timely basis;
c. Within the 12 months immediately preceding her application for
reinstatement, completed 6 hours of continuing legal education in real
propeliy law. These hours must be focused on general real property
law or residential real property law, as defined in 27 N.C. Admin.
Code Chapter I, Subchapter D, Section .2102;
d. Not have violated any of the Rules of Professional Conduct;
e. Not have violated any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States;
f.

Paid all costs ofthis proceeding as assessed by the Secretary within
thirty (30) days of service of the notice of costs upon her;

4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retainjUlisdiction ofthis
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules throughout the period of the
stayed suspension.
Signed by the undersigned Hearing Panel chair with the consent of the other
Heming Panel members.
This theOl! day of !Y\CYC h

2011.

Agreed and consented to by:

;n~--~

Attorney for Plaintiff

~

CLrl~Fa~wsom
L. clfltvwrV
II

. mie
efendant

9

