STATE OF NORTH CAltQ'r,INA

BEFORE THE
HEARING COMMISSION
OF THE
CAROLINA STATE BAR
16DHC25

DTS:CTF'fJl'IAR

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE
Plaintiff

CONSENT ORDER
OF DISCIPLINE

v.
GEORGIA S. NIXON, Attomey,
Defendant

THIS MATTER was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Chair, William O. King,and Wan-en G.
McDonald pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code 1B § .0114. Plaintiff, the North Carolina
State Bar, was represented by Carmen Hoyme Batmon. Defendant, Georgia S. Nixon,
was represented by David B. Freedman. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this
matter and both parties stipulate and consent to the entry of this order and to the
disciplinc imposed. Defendant waives any right to appeal this consent order or to
challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings.
Based upon the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent
and convincing evidence, the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the
laws of North Carolina atId is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authodty granted it in Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the
Rules and Regulations ofthe NOIih Carolina State Bat· promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defcndant, Georgia S. Nixon, was admitted to the North Carolina State
Bar in 1991, and is an Attomey at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
matter.

Nixon was properly served with the summons and complaint in this

The North Carolina State Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16 DHC 25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 1 of10

4.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Nixon was actively engaged
in the practice oflaw in High Point, Guilford County, North Carolina.
Nixon represented Lyndell Fuller on various drug-related charges in State
v. Fuller, Guilford County file nos. 13-CRS-230S5, 13-CRS-23169, I3-CRS-74635-36,
& I3-CRS-S0539 ("Fuller's 2013 charges").
5.

6.
Nixon negotiated a plea agreement wherein four of Fuller's 2013 charges
would be dismissed in exchange for his guilty plea on four other charges. The plea
agreement was reduced to writing in a Transcript of Plea hand-written by Nixon and
signed by Nixon and the prosecutor (ADA Jones) on 12 March 2014. The Transcript of
Plea was not presented to the Court until 12 May 2014.
7.
The ADA who was in court on 12 May 2014 (ADA Green) had no prior
involvement in Fuller's case. In court on 12 May 2014, Nixon asked ADA Green to
alter the plea agreement that had already been signed by ADA .Tones to include language
indicating that Fuller would not be charged with any crimes he may have committed
before 12 May 2014. Nixon told ADA Green that ADA Jones had agreed to include this
language in the plea agreement.
S.
Although during their discussion of the case ADA Jones said something to
the effect that he would not allow the police to "play ditty pool," Nixon knew or should
have known that ADA Jones had not agreed give Fuller amnesty from any criminal
offenses he might have committed prior to the date of his guilty plea.

9.
Nixon contacted ADA Jones by phone on the morning of 12 May 2014
regarding the additional term she sought to add to Fuller's Transcript of Plea. During
that conversation, ADA Jones did not agree that Fuller would have amnesty for any
crimes he might have committed before 12 May 2014.
10.
In response to Nixon's request, ADA Green also contacted ADA Jones,
who again stated that there was no such agreement, and that no alterations were to be
made to Fuller's existing Transcript of Plea. ADA Green relayed to Nixon what ADA
Jones had said, and offered to continue the case so she could have an opportunity to
address the issue directly with ADA Jones. Nixon declined, and proceeded to present
the cxisting Transcript of Plea to the Court.
II.
During the presentation of Fuller's plea to the Court, Fuller confirmed that
the plea arrangement set forth in the Transcript of Plea was the complete agreement, and
that no other promises had been made to cause him to plead guilty.

12.
At the conclusion of the presentation to the Court on 12 May 2014, Nixon
implied to the court that ADA Jones had agreed not to prosecute Fuller on crimes predating the entry of the plea, stating that ADA Jones "didn't feel comfortable putting
anything iu a plea arrangement, not knowing if he is being investigated for some
unrelated murder, sex offense, something like that, but Mr. Fuller is under the

The North Carolina Slate Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16 DHC 25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 2 oflO

impression this encompasses everything that has to do with these drug charges as of
today." The presiding judge did not acknowledge these remarks by Nixon, entered
Fuller's plea without further inquiry, and sentenced him to the agreed-upon 11-23
months of incarceration.
13.
Fuller was subsequently charged in Guilford County with additional drugrelated offenses which occurred between 18 February 2014 and 1 April 2014. (State v.
Fuller, Guilford County file nos. 14-CRS-76387-91) ("Fuller's 2014 charges").
14.
On 9 January 2015, Nixon filed a motion to dismiss Fuller's 2014 charges
on the grounds that her "agreement" with ADA Jones regarding Fuller's plea to the 2013
charges precluded the State fi'om bringing the 2014 charges.
15.
After a hearing, the Court found that there was no such agreement
bctwccn Nixon and ADA Jones. Accordingly, Nixon;s motion to dismiss Fuller's 2014
charges was denied.
16.
On 24 July 2015, Nixon tiled a motion to suppress evidence related to
Fuller's 2014 charges on the grounds that he was not advised of his Miranda rights
before he made celiain statements to law enforcement. Nixon's associate of 15 years
prepared the motion, which was signed, filed, and argued by Nixon. In the motion,
Nixon contended that the investigating officer had not read Fuller his rights, and that no
signed waiver ofrights fonn had been produced by the State in discovery.
17.
A waiver of rights form signed by Fuller was among the documents
attached to Nixon's 24 July 2015 motion to suppress.
18.
The State's first witness at the hearing on Nixon's motion to suppress
pointed out that the executed waiver of rights form had been attached to Nixon's motion.
Nonetheless, Nixon neither acknowledged her demonstrably inaccurate assertion
regarding the production of a waiver form, nor did she seek to correct the allegations she
had made in the motion to suppress.
19.
After a lengthy hearing, the Court found that the 24 July 2015 motion to
suppress was "based on a fundamental mistake" and that one of the primary "underlying
reasons for filing the motion was utterly destroyed almost at the outset of the hearing."
20.
Nixon represented Daniel Blakely on a charge of driving while impaired
in State v. Blakely, Guilford County file no. l3-CR-66454.
21.
Following Blakely's 16 January 2013 anest for DWI, the North Carolina
Division of Motor Vehicles revoked Blakely's commercial driver's license (CDL) for a
period of one year, as authorized byN.C. Gen. Stat. § 20-17.4(7).
22.
When Nixon appeared in Guilford County District COUli on Blakely's
behalf on 11 March 2014, she argued that the DMV's revocation of Blakely's CDL
The North Carolina State Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16DHC25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 3 oflO

amounted to punislunent, and therefore further prosecution of Blakely for the DWI would
constitute double jeopardy.
23.
At the time Nixon made this argument, the question of whether
prosecution for DWI and revocation of a defendant's CDL under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 2017.4(7) constituted double jeopardy had already been raised by the appellant in Stale v.
McKenzie, 225 N.C. App. 208 (2013), rev'd 367 N.C. 112 (2013).
24.
On 15 January 2013, a divided panel of the Court of Appeals had issued
its opinion in McKenzie, holding that a CDL revocation constituted punishment and
therefore precluded the underlying DWI prosecution on double jeopardy grounds.
On 23 January 2013, the Supreme Court of North Carolina issued a
25.
temporary stay and writ of supersedeas, staying Court of Appeals decision in McKenzie.
Accordingly, the mandate for the Court of Appeals decision in McKenzie did not issue
and that decision did not become controlling law in North Carolina.
26.
On 4 October 2013, the Supreme Court reversed the Court of Appeals
decision in McKenzie, holding that the revocation of a CDL is a civil penalty, not a
criminal sanction, and therefore prosecuting the underlying DWI does not infringe upon a
defendant's protection against double jeopardy.
27.
The Supreme COUl1 decision in McKenzie was issued more than five
months before Nixon made the double jeopardy argument on Blakely's behalf in district
COUlt.
28.
Nixon had an obligation to her client and the Court to ensure that her
arguments on Blakely's behalf were bascd on accurate statements oflaw.
29.
Nixon argued that at the time Blakely was charged with DWI (on 1
January 2013), the Court of Appeals decision in McKenzie was controlling law, and that
the Supreme Comi's subsequent opinion in McKenzie should not be applied
"retroactively" to Blakely'S case.
30.
Nixon presented the judge with a proposed order granting her motion to
dismiss Blakely's DWI charge on double jeopardy grounds. It stated that the "N0l1h
Carolina Appellate Courts have addressed double jeopardy claims on license revocations
in three separate cases," but State v. McKenzie was not among the three decisions
discusscd in the proposed order.
31.
Apparently based on Nixon's argument that the Court of Appeals decision
in McKenzie was controlling law on the date of Blakely's arrest, the judge added
language indicating that the dismissal was nunc pro lunc to 22 February 2013.
32.
The order dismissing Blakely's case on double jeopardy grounds was
signed by the judge and entered on 11 March 2014.

The North Carolina Stale Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16DHC25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 4 oflO

33.
On 20 March 2014, the State requested a meeting with Nixon and the
presiding jndge to discuss the dismissal order in Blakely's case. At the ensuing meeting,
the State raised concerns about the fact that the order was contrary to controlling law, and
about the nunc pro lunc date. After some discussion and over Nixon's objection, the
judge entered an order striking the II March 2014 dismissal order.
34.
Nixon then filed a motion seeking to preclude the State Ii'om seeking
reheming of Blakely's motion to dismiss on the grounds that the order stJiking the prior
dismissal order was void, and the time for seeking rehearing of the II March 2014 order
had expired. After a contested hearing in district court, the motion was granted. Several
weeks later, Blakely was charged with DWI in Superior COUli, Stale v. Blakely, Guilford
County file no. 13-CRS-66454.
35.
Nixon then filed motions to dismiss the Superior COUlt DWI charge on
double jeopardy grounds and for lack of jurisdiction. There was a contested hearing on
these issues in july 2014.
36.
to dismiss.
37.

During the course of the July 2014 hearing, Nixon withdrew her motions
Blakely entered an Alford plea to DWI on 30 July 2014.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

I.
All patties are properly beforc the Hearing Panel and the Disciplinary
Hem'ing Commission has jurisdiction over Defendant, Georgia S. Nixon and over the
subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set out in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct in effect at the time of her actions as follows:
(a)

By asserting to ADA Green that ADA Jones had agreed to the inclusion of
an additional teml in Fuller's plea agreement when she knew or should
have Imown that ADA Jones had not agreed to the addition of that term,
Defendant engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(e);

(b)

By contending in her motion to dismiss that ADA Jones had agreed Fuller
would not be charged with offenses predating his 12 May 2014 guilty plea
when she blew or should have known that ADA Jones had not agreed to
any such arrangement, Defendant assClied an issue without basis in fact in
violation of Rule 3.1;

(c)

By filing the motion to dismiss Fuller's case and requiring the COUlt to
devote time and resources to a hearing when she knew 01' should have

The North Carolina Siale Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16DHC25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 5 ofl0

known that the grounds for the motion lacked factual basis, Defendant
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation
of Rule 8A(d);
(d)

By filing the motion to suppress that alleged no waiver of lights form
signed by Fuller had been produced by the State in discovery when the
waiver of rights fonn was attached to the motion, Defendant failed to
exercise reasonable diligence on behalf of a client in violation of Rule 1.3,
and asserted an issue without basis in fact in violation of Rule 3.1;

(e)

By proceeding throughout the hearing without acknowledging or
correcting the demonstrably inaccurate allegation in her motion to
suppress, Defendant engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration
of justice in violation of Rule 8A(d);

(I)

By arguing that the Court of Appeals decision in McKenzie was
controlling law at the time Blakely was charged with DWI, Defendant
asseltcd an issue without basis in law in violation of Rule 3.1 and failed to
exercise reasonable diligence in representing a client in violation of Rule
1.3; and

(g)

By obtaining dismissal of Blakely's case by making an argnment without
legal basis, and consuming conrt time and resources pursuing multiple
subsequent motions arising out of that elToncous dismissal, Defendant
engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in violation
of Rule S.4(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the consent
of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence the
following
ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

I.

Defendant has no prior professional discipline.

2.
Defcndant's intentional acts, as described above, created a foreseeable risk
of harm to the administration of justice and to third parties, namely attorneys for the
State.
3.
Defendant's actions described herein were intended to benefit her client
and were not motivated by personal interest.
4.
Defendant has fully cooperated with the State Bar's invcstigation and in
reaching a resolution in these proceedings.

5.

Members of the Guilford County Bar attest to Defendant's good character.

The North Carolina State Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16DHC25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 6 oflO

Based upon the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel makes the
following
ADDITIONAL CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLlNE
I.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fmIDs of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in Rule .OI14(w) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the State Bar.
2.
The Hem'ing Panel concludes the following factors from Rule .OI14(w)(I)
wal1'ant consideration of suspension of Defendant's license:
(a) intent to commit acts where resulting harm is foreseeable;
(b) negative impact of the defendant's actions on thc administration of justice;
and
(c) effect of defendant's conduct on third parties.
3.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated
in Rule .OlI4(w)(2) and concludes that none of the factors requiring consideration of
disbarment are present in this case.
4.
The Hearing Pmlel has carefully considered all of the factors enumerated
in Rule .OI14(w)(3) and determines that the following factors are applicable in this case:
(a) Lack of prior discipline;
(b) Absence of selfish motive;
(c) Multiple offenses;
(d) Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings;
(e) Degree of experience in the practice of law; and
(f) Good character or reputation.
5.
The Hearing Panel has considered admonition, reprimand and censure as
potcntial discipline but finds that any sanction less than suspension would fail to
aclmowledge the seriousness ofthe offenses committed by Defendant.
6.
In light of the significant harm and potential harm resulting from
Defendmll's miscondnct, the Hearing Panel concludes that a suspension of Defendant's
license, stayed upon compliance with conditions, is the only discipline that:

TIle North Carolina State Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16 DHC 25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 7 oflO

(a) will adequately protect the public;
(b) aclmowledges the seriousness of Defeud ant's offenses; and
(c) sends a proper message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct
expected of members of the Bar of this State.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional
Findings mld Conclusions Regm'ding Discipline, and with the consent of the patties, the
Heming Panel enters the following
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE.
I.
Defendant, Georgia S. Nixon is hereby suspended from the practice of law
for one year, effective 30 days from service of this order upon Defendant.
2.
The one year suspension is stayed for a period of two years as long as
Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period of the stay, with the
following conditions:
(a) Defendant shall keep the North Cm'olina State Bar membership
department advised of her CUiTent physical home and business addrcsses,
telephone numbers, and email address, and shall notify the membership
department within 10 days of any change to her contact information;
(b) Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the North Carolina State Bar
and respond to all letters of notice and requests for infonuation from the
North Carolina State Bar-including communications from the Attorney
Client Assistance Program-within 30 days of receipt or by the deadline
stated in the communication, whichever is sooner;
(c) Defendant shall participate fully, timely, and in good faith in the State
Bar's fee dispute resolution program when notitied of any petitions for
resolution of disputed fees;
(d) Defendant shall timely comply with Statc Bar membership requirements
and pay all fees and costs assessed by the State Bar and the Client Security
Fund by the applicable deadline;
(e) Defendant shall timely comply with her State Bar CLE requirements and
shall pay all CLE fees and costs assessed by the applicable deadline;
(g) Defendant shall not violate any federal or statc laws, other than minor
traffic violations;

The North Carolina Slate Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16 DHC 25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 8 0[10

(h) Defendant shall not violate any provision of the NOIth Carolina Rules of
Professional Conduct; and
(i) Defendant shall pay the costs of this proceeding within 30 days of service
of the statement of costs upon her by the Secretary of the State Bar.
If the stay of the suspension is lifted at any time and the suspension of
3.
Defendant's law license is activated for any reason, before seeking reinstatement of her
license to practice law, Defendant must show by clear, cogent and convincing evidence
that she:
(a) Submitted her license and membership card to the Secretary of the State
Bar within 30 days after the effective date of the order suspending her law
license;
(b) Complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. Chapter 1, Subchapter B,
Section .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules on a timely
basis;
(c) Paid all outstanding membership fees, Client SeeW'ity Fund assessments
and costs assessed by the DHC or the Slate Bar and complied with all
continuing legal education requirements imposed by the State Bar. At the
time she petitions for reinstatement, Defendant must demonstrate that she
is CUlTen! in payment of all applicable membership dues, fees, costs,
penalties accrued, Client Security Fund assessments, judicial district dues,
and any other charges the State Bar is authorized to collect; and
(d) Complied with the conditions set forth in paragraphs 2(a) through 2(i)
above during the period of active suspension.
4.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pW'suant to 27 N.C.A.C. 1B § .0114(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules throughout any period of stayed suspension.
5.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as
assessed by the Secretary, which shall be paid within 30 days of service of the notice of
costs upon Defendant.

The North Carolina Stale Bar v. Georgia S. Nixon
16 DHC 25
Consent Order of Discipline
Page 9 of10

S,ed py

the Chair with the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the

"""","'No.=,,",WI6,

~
. Jo ua W. 1 ey, r., Clurir
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

Carmen Hoyme Bannon
Attol11ey for Plaintiff

Attorney for Defendant

