NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF
William W. Noel, III,
Attomey At Law

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
11 G0337, 1100372, 11 G0553, 11 G0554, 1100555

)
)
)
)
)

REPRIMAND

On July 18,2013 the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievance filed against you by A. M., A. Y., L. H., V. K., and S. M.
Pursuant to Section .01 13 (a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
information available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the mles as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member of the North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifYing
disciplinary action."
The mles provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not required, and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure to the respondent attomey.
A reprimand is a written form of discipline more serious than an admonition issued in
cases in which an attomey has violated one or more provisions ofthe Rules of Professional
Conduct and has caused harm or potential harm to a client, the administration of justice, the
profession, or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require a censure.
The Grievance Committee was ofthe opinion that a censure is not required in this case
and issues this reprimand to you. As chailman of the Grievance Committee of the North
Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this reprimand.
In these five cases you exhibited a pattem of repeatedly undertaking to represent clients
and failing to provide the promised legal services. In one case your failure to complete your work
led to a client losing his driver's license and an increase in that client's insurance premiums.
Ordinarily, your handling of these cases would warrant a referral to the DHC. However, because
your license is currently suspended and, to be reinstated, you must prove you are not suffering

from any disability or addiction that would impair your ability to practice law, the Grievance
Committee detennined that it is not necessary to impose another suspension.
You are hereby reprimanded by the North Carolina State Bar for your professional
misconduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will heed this reprimand, that it will be
remembered by you, that it will be beneficial to you, and that you will never again allow yourself
to depart from adherence to the high ethical standards of the legal profession.
In accordance with the policy adopted July 23,2010 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of administrative fees and investigative costs to any attorney
issued a reprimand by the Grievance Committee, an administrative fee in the amount of $350.00
is hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, this the

I Lf ttday of

~

Grievance Committee

MMHllb

,2013.

