i \) 9 10'11 ~ /"

'0
V)

~

NORTH CAROLINA
WAKE COUNTY

..:I

~

"1"~\

fY)

4t1e
J::Jh <011/

N

•

:'"

r~3>£)

c;.\

BEFORE THE
CIPLINARY HEARING COMMISSION
co
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
,c\,
I I DHC 4

"I':::?:JD
'lie

"62'1,' 0

C

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff,

,f!j

\l,~'
)
)
)

v.

)

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

)

WILLIAM W. NOEL, III,
Defendant.

)
)
)

THIS MATTER was considered on July 29,2011 by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission composed of the Chair, Theodore C. Edwards, II, and members Robert F.
Siler and Karen B. Ray. William N. Farrell represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar.
Defendant did not appear in person or by counsel. A default order having been previously
entered, this Hearing Panel addressed the discipline to be imposed. The default order found facts
and violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.

Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly organized

under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the
authority granted it in Chapter 84 of the North Carolina General Statutes, and the Rules and
Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.

Defendant, William W. Noel, III ("Noel" or "Defendant"), was admitted to the

North Carolina State Bar on August 23, 1991, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an
attorney at law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws of the State of North

Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
3.

During the relevant periods referred to herein, Noel was engaged in the practice of

law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law office in Henderson, Vance County,
North Carolina.
4.

Noel opened a checking account, account number ending 9161, with Republic

Savings Banlc in 1992 as a general operating account for his law practice.
5.

In 1995 First Citizens Bank bought Republic Savings Bank and provided Noel

with a trust account, account number ending 9162.
6.

The trust account number ending 9162 with First Citizens Ban1e was closed by

Noel on August 15,2006.
7.

On or about October 23, 2008 Noel changed the designation of his operating

account 9161 with First Citizens Barlie to BOARD OF TTEES OF THE NORTH CAROLINA
STATE BAR PLAN IOLTA LAW OFFICES OF WILLIAM W. NOEL, III, P.O. BOX 4
HENDERSON, NC 27536-0004. 111is account was not a trust account.
8.

After the change in designation of account number ending 9161, Noel continued

to use this account as his operating account, commingling his personal funds with client funds
and continuing to make personal payments out of the account.
9.

On May 22, 2009 a procedural audit of Noel's trust account(s) was conducted by

auditor Bruno DeMolli of the North Carolina State Bar, pursuant to Title 27 of the North
Carolina Administrative Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0128(b).

-2-

10.

The procedural audit encompassed a review of the preceding twelve months

activity in the trust account(s), including review of bank statements, cancelled checks, deposit
slips, and the book keeping system for the account(s).
11.

The audit revealed the following problems:

(a)

Noel deposited client funds which were to be used for court costs into his
operating account;

(b)

Noel commingled his personal funds with client funds.

(c)

Noel did not maintain complete records of all entrusted property received from
clients;

(d)

Noel did not maintain all bank receipts or deposit slips listing the source and date
of receipt of all funds and the client names for trust account deposits;

(e)

Noel did not deposit clients funds received for court costs in to the trust account;

(f)

Noel did not maintain a complete and legible ledger containing a record for each
person or entity, from whom or for whom funds to be held in trust had been
received;

(g)

Noel did not deposit mixed funds, those belonging to him and a client, into the
trust account intact;

(h)

Noel did not reconcile his trust account quarterly and did not balance his bank
statements monthly with his records; and

(i)

Noel did not have a directive with his bank to report to the Executive Director of
the State Bar when any check drawn on his trust account was presented against
insufficient funds.

-3-

Based upon these facts found in the default order, the Hearing Panel concluded that Noel
violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.

By depositing client funds that were to be used for court costs into his operating

account, Defendant failed to identify, hold and maintain separate the entrusted property of clients
in violation of Rule l.l5-2(a) &(b);
2.

By failing to maintain bank receipts or deposit slips listing the source of all fimds

deposited and failing to name the client to whom the funds belonged, Noel failed to maintain
records in violation of Rule l.l5-3(a)(l);
3.

By failing to maintain complete records of all entrusted property received from a

client, Noel failed to maintain records in violation of Rule l.l5-3(f);

4.

By failing to deposit mixed funds into the trust account intact, Noel violated Rule

1. 15-2(g);

5.

By failing to maintain a complete and legible ledger containing a record of

receipts and disbursements and showing client balances of funds held for clients, Noel failed to
maintain a ledger in violation of Rule 1-15-3(a)(5);
6.

By failing to reconcile his trust account quarterly, Noel failed to balance his

individual client balances and reconcile them with the current bank balance for the trust account
in violation of Rule 1-15-3(c); and
7.

By failing to file a directive with his bank to repmi to the Executive Director of

the North Carolina State Bar to report any trust checks drawn on the account which were
presented against insufficient funds, Noel violated Rule 1-15-2(k).

-4-

Based on the Foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and additional evidence
and argument presented as to the appropriate discipline, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear,
cogent and convincing evidence the following additional:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

Defendant conmlitted multiple violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct

governing entrusted funds and the records and accountings required for same.
2.

Defendant's failure to keep required trust account records as required by the Rules

of Professional Conduct created the potential risk of significant harm to his clients and persons
who entrusted funds to him.
3.

Defendant's inability to account for all funds entrusted to him at all times

impaired the ability of his clients or other persons to entrust him with their money and affairs.
Once known to the public, such conduct harms the profession as a whole.
4.

Defendant has received two letters of warning within the last three years.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Additional Findings of
Fact Regarding Discipline, the I-Iearing Panel hereby enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.

The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors contained in 27 N.C.A.C. 1B

§ .0 I l4(w) (I) and (2) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe State Bar and concludes that the
following factors that warrant suspension of Defendant's law license are present:
(a)

intent of the defendant to conU11it acts where the harm or potential harm is
foreseeable;

(b)

the negative impact of the defendant's actions on client's or public's perception of
the profession;

-5-

(c)

the negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
and

(d)

multiple instances offailure to participate in the legal profession's self-regulation
process.

3.

The Hearing Panel has considered all of the general factors enumerated in 27

N.C.A.C. lB § .OI14(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations of the State Bar and concludes the
following factors are present:
(a)

a pattern of misconduct;

(b)

degree of experience in the practice oflaw; and

(c)

issuance of two letters of waming within the three years immediately preceding
the filing of the complaint.

4.

The Hearing Panel has considered all other forms of discipline and concludes that

any sanction less than suspension would fail to acknowledge the seriousness of the offenses
committed by defendant, would not adequately protect the public, and would send the wrong
message to attorneys and the public regarding the conduct expected of members of the Bar.
5.

Due to the significant potential harm resulting from defendant's conduct, the

Hearing Panel finds and concludes that an active suspension of defendant's license for a definite
period of time is the only discipline that will adequately protect the public from future
misconduct by defendant.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Additional Findings
Regarding Discipline, and Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, the Hearing Panel enters
the following:

-6-

ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.

The law license of Defendant, William W. Noel, III, is hereby suspended for three

years effective thirty days after service of this Order of Discipline on him.
2.

Defendant shall submit his license and membership card to the Secretary of the

North Carolina State Bar no later than thirty days following service of this Order on him.
3.

Defendant shall comply with the wind down provisions contained in 27 N.C.A.C.

IB § .0124 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules. Defendant shall file
an affidavit with the Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar within ten days after the effective
date of this Order of Discipline certifying he has complied with the wind down provisions of
Section .0124.
4.

Within fifteen days of the effective date of this Order, Defendant will provide the

State Bar with a street address and mailing address at which clients seeking return of their files
and records in Defendant's possession or control may obtain such files and records and at which
the State Bar may serve any notices or matters upon him.
5.

After the completion of one year of active suspension of his license, Defendant

may apply for a stay of the balance of the active suspension upon filing a petition with the
Secretary of the North Carolina State Bar at least thirty days before any proposed effective date
of the stay and demonstrating the following by clear, cogent and convincing evidence:
(a)

That Defendant has kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;

(b)

That Defendant has accepted all certified mail sent to the address of record with
the Membership Department of the North Carolina State Bar;

-7-

(c)

That Defendant has responded to all letters of notice and requests for information,
including any pending or outstanding letters of notice or requests for information,
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full and
complete responses and all requested documentation;

(d)

That Defendant has responded to all communications from the Attorney Client
Assistance Progran1, within thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the
communication, whichever is sooner;

(e)

That Defendant has participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute
resolution process for any petition received after the effective date of this Order;

(f)

That Defendant has paid all Client Security Flmd claims in which clients were
awarded reimbursement for Defendant's misconduct;

(g)

That Defendant is not suffering from any disability or addiction that would impair
his ability to practice law;

(h)

That Defendant has properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
requirements of27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0124, the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules;

(i)

That Defendant has paid the costs of this proceeding as assessed by the Secretary
within one year after the statement of costs has been provided to him.

6.

If Defendant successfully seeks a stay ofthe suspension of his law license, such

stay will continue in force only as long as he complies with the following conditions:
(a)

Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his CUlTent business and home addresses;

-8-

(b)

Defendant shall respond to all communications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications l'Tom the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition received during the stay;

(c)

Defendant is to have his trust account(s) audited on a quarterly basis by a
certified public accountant (CPA). The CPA must examine the trust account(s)
for compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct. The CPA must report
quarterly to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar any accounting irregularities
and any deviance from the requirements of the Rules ofProfessional Conduct,
with a copy of the report sent simultaneously to Defendant. The CPA's reports
are due no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter (first quarter's report
due April 30, second quarter's report due June 30, third quarter's report due
October 30 and fOUlih quarter's report due January 30).. Defendant shall ensure
the CPA completes and submits the reports as required herein;

(d)

If any of the CPA's reports note any irregularities or deficiencies requiring
remedial action, Defendant shall take such remedial action and provide proof of
such to the Office of Counsel of the State Bar and to the CPA within thirty (30)
days of the date of the CPA's report;

(e)

If any of the CPA's reports note any irregularities or deficiencies requiring
remedial action, the CPA shall provide a final report regarding whether
Defendant's remedial actions were sufficient and whether Defendant's trust
account or accounts has/have been brought to compliance with the Rules of

-9-

Professional Condnct. This final report shall be provided to the Office of Counsel
with a copy to Defendant within thirty (30) days of Defendant's provision of
proof of remedial action;
(f)

All evaluations, reports, and services of the CPA will be at Defendant's expense;

(g)

Defendant shall arrange for an active member of the North Carolina State Bar
who practices law in Vance County and who has been approved by the Otlice of
Counsel to serve as his law practice monitor. Defendant shall submit the name of
the proposed practice monitor to the Office of Counsel Within fifteen (15) days of
reinstatement. Defendant's failure to provide the name of a proposed practice
monitor to the Office of Counsel will not excuse any failure to meet monthly with
an approved practice monitor as required by this order. Nor will Defendant's
failure to provide the name of a proposed practice moniior excuse an approved
practice monitor's failure to provide written qnarterly repOlis to the Office of
Counsel. The selected practice monitor must indicate in writing his or her
agreement to serve. The selected practice monitor must meet with Defendant
monthly to review Defendant's cases. The first such meeting between Defendant
and the practice monitor must be held within fifteen (15) days of the date that
Defendant submits the name of the proposed practice monitor to the Office of
Counsel. The practice monitor will submit to the Office of Counsel Wl'itten
quarterly reports SUl1Ullffi"izing his or her supervision of Defendant. These reports
shall be provided to the Office of Counsel on January 30, April 30, July 30 and
October 30. Monitoring of Defendant's law practice as provided herein shall
continue for the duration of any stay of Defendant's suspension. Defendant shall

-10-

be solely responsible for any cost assessed by the practice monitor for his or her
monitoring of Defendant's law practice. Defendant must supply the Office of
Counsel with a letter from the practice monitor confirming his or her willingness
to serve as practice monitor and to perform the duties outlined in this order.
Defendant must provide this confinnation within ninety (30) days of
reinstatement.
Defendant shall meet at least once monthly with his practice monitor, to whom he
shall report the status of all current client matters. Defendant shall provide any
information the practice monitor deems reasonably necessary to ensure that
Defendant is handling all client matters in accord with the requirements of the
Rules of Professional Conduct.
(h)

Defendant shall ensure that the practice monitor sends to the Office of Counsel a
written report each quarter as described above;

(i)

Should the need arise to find a replacement practice monitor during the stay of
Defendant's suspension, Defendant shall promptly provide to the Office of
Counsel the name ofa proposed alternative practice monitor. Defendant's failure
to promptly provide the Office of Counsel the name of an alternative practice
monitor will not excuse any failure to meet monthly with an approved practice
monitor and will not excuse failure of an approved practice monitor to provide
quarterly reports to the Office of Counsel;

U)

Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or any state or local govemment during his suspension; and

-11-

(k)

Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and continuing
legal education requirements and shall pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline.

7.

If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension

provided in paragraph 6 above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in § .01 14(x)
of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
8.

If Defendant does not seek a stay of the active portion of the suspension or if

some part of the suspension is stayed and thereafter the stay is revoked, Defendant must comply
with the condition set out in paragraphs Sea) through (i) above before seeking reinstatement of
his license to practice law.
9.

Defendant is taxed with the costs ofthis action as assessed by the Secretary.

Signed by the Chair with the full knowledge and consent of the other members of the
-/-.....

I-Iearing Panel, this the ~ day of August, 2011 .

• 1'
~-r
JW?n"
C. ~:o 1L

Theodore C. Edwards, II, Chair
Disciplinary Hearing Panel

-12-

