,·Kjf\'\~'lr;z 1'J
i'~U"
IfA
110
tk 11 ~

~

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

0",

"'" '%(':'.0

2q,lI:
Y

.;:::,

""

[0
BEFORE THE
. <>~CIP~ ARY HEARING COMMISSION
\\;"
OF THE
'it
TH CAROLINA STATE BAR
21)<"
14 DHC 32

WAKE COUNTY
THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR,
Plaintiff

FINDINGS OF FACT,
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW,
AND CONSENT ORDER OF
DISCIPLINE

v.
A. WAYLAND COOKE and
H. DAVIS NORTH, III, Attorneys,

Defendants

This matter was considered by a Hearing Panel of the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission composed of Donald C. Prentiss, Chair, and members Irvin W. Hankins, III
and Michael S. Edwards, pursuant to North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 27,
Chapter I, Subchapter S, § .0114(h). Plaintiff was represented by Jennifer A. Porter.
Defendants A. Wayland Cooke ("Cooke") and H. Davis North, III ("North") were
represented by Alan M. Schneider. Both Plaintiff and Defendants stipulate and agree to
the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this Consent Order and to the
discipline imposed. Defendants freely and voluntarily stipulate to the foregoing findings
offact and consent to the conclusions oflaw and entry of the Order of Discipline.
Defendants freely and voluntarily waive any and all right to appeal the entry of this
consent Order of Discipline.
Based upon the pleadings in this matter, the parties' stipulations of fact, and with
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby finds by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence the following
FINDINGS OF FACT

1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar ("State Bar"), is a body duly
organized under the laws of North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this
proceeding under the authority granted it in Chapter 84 ofthe General Statutes of North
Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the North Carolina State Bar (Chapter 1 of
Title 27 of the North Carolina Administrative Code).
2.
Defendant A. Wayland Cooke ("Cooke"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1976, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attorney at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe State of North
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
I

3.
Defendant H. Davis North, III ("North"), was admitted to the North
Carolina State Bar in 1980, and is, and was at all times referred to herein, an attomey at
law licensed to practice in North Carolina, subject to the laws ofthe State ofN0I1h
Carolina, the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State Bar and the Rules of
Professional Conduct.
4.
Defendants were properly served with process and the matter came before
the Hearing Panel with due notice to all parties.
5.
During all or part ofthe relevant periods referred to herein, Cooke and
North engaged in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina and maintained a law
office in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.
6.
Cooke and North practiced together in a law partnership, in which they
shared trust and operating accounts and utilized a non-attomey assistant referenced herein
asAR
7.
Since about November 2008, Cooke and North relied upon AR to manage
the trust and operating accounts and to perfonn the necessary bookkeeping and
reconciliations.
8.
Cooke and North failed to supervise AR's management ofthe accounts
and requisite bookkeeping and reconciliations.
9.
Neither Cooke nor N0I1h conducted monthly or qUaI1erly reconciliations
oftheir trust accounts.
10.
From about February 2011 through January 2012, AR misappropriated
funds from the trust and operating accounts of Cooke and North.
II.
During this time period, Cooke and North kept earned attomeys fees from
their criminal cases in their two trust accounts, withdrawing earned funds as needed for
attomey draws or operating expenses.
Only one of the two trust accounts contained entrusted client funds. The
12.
entrusted funds constituted a small portion of the funds in that account.
13.
The funds misappropriated by AR from the trust accounts were funds
belonging to Cooke and North and there was always a sufficient balance to cover the
funds belonging to clients in the one trust account that contained client funds.

2

Based upon the consent of the parties and the foregoing stipulated Findings of
Fact, the Hearing Panel enters the following
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
I.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has
jurisdiction over Defendants and the subject matter of this proceeding.
2.
Defendants' conduct, as set out in the stipulated Findings of Fact above,
constitutes grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2) as follows:
(a)

By depositing and maintaining earned fees in their attorney trnst accounts,
Defendants failed to maintain entrusted funds separate from personal
funds in violation of Rule 1.15-2(a) and (f); and

(b)

By delegating trust account management, bookkeeping, and reconciliation
duties to AR without providing supervision to AR of these duties,
Defendants failed to supervise a non-attorney assistant to the extent
necessary to ensure the assistant's conduct was compatible with the
professional obligations of Defendants in violation of Rule 5.3(b), failed to
ensure entrusted funds were properly maintained in violation of Rule 1.152(a), and failed to ensure their trust accounts were reconciled monthly and
quarterly in violation of Rule 1.15-3(d).

Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, and with the
consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel finds by clear, cogent, and convincing evidence
the following
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
I.
AR was a trusted, long-time employee who had been trained to conduct
the bookkeeping and reconciliations of the firm's trust accounts by a former law partner
who has since passed away.

2.
The former law partner had supervised AR's bookkeeping and
reconciliation of the firm's trust accounts and had reported no problems with her
capabilities in this area.
3.

AR had signatory authority on Defendants' trust accounts.

4.
Defendants allowed a non-attorney assistant to have access to entrusted
funds and delegated to the assistant the management, bookkeeping, and reconciliation of
their trust accounts with no provision for attorney supervision for a 5 year period.
5.
Cooke and North reviewed end of month statements prepared by AR that
listed the funds in the trust account and identified the corresponding clients. Those
3

statements did not constitnte the required monthly or quarterly reconciliations of the trust
account, however, nor did the statements prepared by AR track activity in the account
6.
Defendants' excessive delegation without adequate supelvision created
circumstances that enabled AR to misappropriate funds belonging to these attorneys from
their trust accounts.
7.
In January 2012, AR failed to return to work. Defendants took prompt
and appropriate action to examine their trust accounts in light of AR's aberrant behavior.
8.
Upon finding that AR had written checks to herself from the trust and
operating accounts, Defendants promptly retained a CPA to audit their accounts and
detennine whether any entrusted funds had been affected.
9.
Defendants appropriately disbursed the funds remaining in the two trust
accounts after CPA review, and opened a new trust account for which only they have
signatory authority.
10.
Defendants have acknowledged their failure to properly maintain their
trust accounts and have described changes designed to ensure future compliance.
Defendants have disbursed all earned fees from their trust accounts and no longer deposit
earned fees into their ttust accounts. Defendants hired a new assistant and arranged for
her to be trained by their CPA in bookkeeping procedures for the operating and trust
accounts. Defendants have arranged for their CPA to review the assistant's bookkeeping
and bank activities for the finn monthly and to reconcile the finn's trust account
quarterly.
11.
Defendants reported the matter to the State Bar and fully cooperated with
the State Bar's review of their trust accounts and procedures.
12.

Neither Defendant has prior discipline.

13.
Each Defendant has been practicing law for over 30 years and enjoys an
excellent reputation in the legal community.
14.
There is no evidence of any dishonest or selfish motive on the part of
either Defendant.
15.
Although Defendants' delegation and failure to supervise AR created the
potential risk of significant client harm, there is no evidence that any client of Defendants
suffered actnal hann.
16.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different fonns of
discipline available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension, and
disbarment, in considering the appropriate discipline to impose in this case.

4

Based on the Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law above and the additional
Findings of Fact Regarding Discipline, and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of
discipline available to it. In addition, the Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors
enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C. IB § .0114(w)(1) of the Rules and Regulations of the North
Carolina State Bar and concludes the following factor warrants suspension of
Defendants' licenses:

(a)

Defendants' actions potentially had a negative impact on the public's
perception of the legal profession, although there is no evidence that any
client of Defendants suffered actual harm.

2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(w)(2) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and concludes no factors are present in this instance that would warrant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in
27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0114(w)(3) of the Rules and Regulations ofthe North Carolina State
Bar and concludes the following factors are applicable in this matter:
(a)

No prior disciplinary offenses;

(b)

Absence of dishonest or selfish motive;

(c)

Timely good faith efforts to rectify the consequences of the Rule
violations;

(d)

Defendants' full and fi·ee disclosure to the Hearing Panel and cooperative
attitude toward the proceedings;

(e)

Defendants' remorse;

(1)

Defendants' good character and reputation;

(g)

Each Defendant has practiced law for over 30 years.

4.
Defendants' failure to properly maintain, manage, and handle entrusted
funds betrays a vital trust clients and the public place in attorneys and the legal
profession.

5

5.
The Hearing Panel has considered issuing an admonition, reprimand or
censure but concludes that such discipline would not be sufficient discipline because of
the gravity of the potential harm to the clients. The Panel further concludes that such
discipline would fail to acknowledge the seriousness ofthe violations committed by
Defendants and send the wrong message to attorneys regarding the conduct expected of
members of the Bar in this State.
6.
This Hearing Panel has considered lesser alternatives and concludes that a
stayed suspension with conditions is necessary and sufficient to adequately protect the
public.
7.
For these reasons, this Hearing Panel finds that an order imposing
discipline short of a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license would not be
appropriate.
Based upon the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions regarding discipline, and based upon the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
1.
Defendants, A. Wayland Cooke and H. Davis North, III, are each hereby
suspended fi'om the practice oflaw for one year. Defendants are each taxed with the
costs of this action as assessed by the Secretary. Defendants shall each be served with a
statement of costs stating the costs assessed against each Defendant. Each Defendant
shall pay the costs within thilty days of service of the statement of costs upon him.
2.
The one-year suspension is stayed for a period of one year for each
Defendant as long as said Defendant complies, and continues to comply during the period
of the stay, with the following conditions:
(a)

Within 30 days of the effective date ofthis order, Defendants shall
establish procedures to ensure that client funds are appropriately
maintained and disbursed and that monthly and quarterly reconciliations
of the tlUst account are properly conducted. If non-attorney assistants
and/or a CPA will be used to assist with these tasks, Defendants shall
establish procedures for personal review and supervision. No later than
30 days from the effective date of this order, Detendants shall submit
these procedures to the Office of Counsel. Defendants shall make any
adjustments required by the Office of Counsel to ensure compliance with
the Rules of Professional Conduct;

(b)

Each month Defendants shall provide the Office of Counsel of the State
Bar with the three-way reconciliation described in the State Bar Lawyer's
TlUst Account Handbook for all tlUst accounts maintained by them.
Defendants shall provide the three-way reconciliation report, client ledgers
6

for all clients with funds in the trust account(s) during that month, ledger
for any personal funds maintained in the trust account(s) for bank or credit
card fees, trust account ledger, and the bank statements, cancelled checks,
and deposit slips for each month. Defendants shall also provide
documentation showing they followed the procedures established under
the preceding paragraph. These documents are due on the 15 th day of the
following month - for example, the three-way reconciliation for the month
of January is due on February 15;
(c)

Each quarter, Defendants shall have a CPA audit all trust accounts.
Defendants will be responsible for any associated costs. This audit shall
assess whether Defendants have in the trust account(s) the client funds
they should be maintaining for their clients at that time, as well as
Defendants' compliance with Rule 1.15-2 and Rule 1.15-3. The CPA's
audit shall include addressing the items on the Accountant Checklist for
Probation Cases which will be provided by the State Bar to Defendants.
The quarterly audit reports from the CPA are due no later than 30 days
after the end of the quarter - for example, the CPA audit for the first
quarter ofthe calendar year (January, February, and March) is due on
April 30;

(d)

If either the monthly three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit
reveals any deviation from Defendants' obligations under Rule 1.15-2 or
Rule 1.15-3, Defendants shall take remedial action within ten days of the
date of the three-way reconciliation report or the CPA audit and shall
provide documentation showing the remedial action to the State Bar
within two days of the date of the remedial action;

(e)

Defendants shall comply with any requests from the Office of Counsel to
provide any infonnation regarding their trust accounts or to sign and
provide any release or authorization to allow the Office of Counsel to
obtain information directly from any bank in which Defendants maintain a
trust account, by the deadline stated in the request;

(f)

Defendants shall each complete four hours of continuing legal education
in the area of trust account management approved by the Office of
Counsel of the State Bar. At least one such session shall be taken before
the end of the next calendar quarter (I.e., by March 30, June 30, etc.)
following the entry of this order and at least one such session shall be a
CLE taught by Peter Bolac, Trust Account Compliance Counsel for the
North Carolina State Bar. Each Defendant shall provide written proof of
successful completion of the CLE courses to the State Bar within ten days
of completing the courses. ;

(g)

Each Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership
Department advised of his current physical business address (not a Post

7

Office box), telephone number, and e-mail address and shall notify the Bar
of any change in address within ten days of such change;
(h)

Each Defendant shall accept all certified mail from the State Bar sent to
the address on record with the Membership Department of the North
Carolina State Bar;

(i)

Each Defendant shall respond to all letters of notice and requests for
information from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated
therein with full and complete responses and all requested documentation;

(j)

Each Defendant will timely comply with the State Bar continuing legal
education requirements and will pay all fees and costs assessed by the
applicable deadline;

(k)

Each Defendant will pay all membership, Client Security Fund, and any
other related dues, fees, andlor costs by the applicable deadline;

(1)

Each Defendant will not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct
in effect during the period of the stay;

(m)

Each Defendant will not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or
of the United States during the period of the stay; and

(n)

Each Defendant paid the costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by
the Secretary within thirty days after the statement of costs and fees was
served upon him.

Unless Defendants' obligations under this Order are modified by further
3.
order ofthe DRC, Defendants' obligations under this Order end one year from the
effective date of the Order provided there are no motions or proceedings pending alleging
lack of compliance with the conditions of the stay of the suspension. Pursuant to
§ .OI14(x) of the North Carolina Discipline and Disability Rules, the DRC retains
jurisdiction until all conditions of the stay of the suspension have been met. Ifa motion
or proceeding alleging lack of compliance with the conditions for the stay of the
suspension is pending when the period of the stay of the suspension would otherwise
have terminated, the DRC retains the jurisdiction and ability to lift the stay of the
suspension and activate the one year suspension in whole or in part if it finds that any of
the conditions of the stay have not been met. The stay of the suspension and Defendants'
obligation to comply with the conditions for the stay will continue until resolution of any
such pending motion or proceeding.
4.
If during the stay ofthe suspension either Defendant fails to comply with
anyone or more of the conditions stated above, then the stay of the suspension of said
Defendant's law license may be lifted as provided in § .OI14(x) ofthe North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
8

5.
Tfthe stay of the suspension is lifted and the suspension is activated for
any reason for either Defendant, said Defendant may apply for reinstatement after serving
the activated suspension by filing a petition pursuant to § .0125 of the North Carolina
State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules demonstrating compliance by clear, cogent, and
convincing evidence with the requirements therein as well as the following requirements:

(a)

Defendant properly wound down his law practice and complied with the
terms of27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0124 of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules;

(b)

Defendant completed four hours of continuing legal education in the area
of trust account management approved by the Office of Counsel of the
State Bar, including at least one CLE by the Trust Account Compliance
Counsel for the North Carolina State Bar.

(c)

Defendant established procedures by which he personally reconciles his
trust accounts or by which he personally supervises any CPA or nonattorney assistant who he utilizes to reconcile his trust accounts.
Defendant shall submit these procedures to the Office of Counsel 30 days
prior to the filing of the petition for reinstatement. Defendant shall have
made any adjustments required by the Office of Counsel to ensure
compliance with the Rules of Professional Conduct and provided any
corrected procedures with the petition;

(d)

Defendant kept the Membership Department of the State Bar informed of
his current information for his physical address (not a Post Office box),
telephone number, and e-mail address throughout the period of his
suspensIOn;

(e)

Defendant accepted all certified mail from the State Bar sent to the address
on record with the Membership Department of the North Carolina State
Bar throughout the period of the suspension;

(f)

Defendant responded to all letters of notice and requests for information
from the North Carolina State Bar by the deadline stated therein with full
and complete responses and all requested documentation throughout the
period of his suspension;

(g)

Defendant has come into compliance with any outstanding continuing
education or membership obligations at the time of the filing of his
petition for reinstatement;

(h)

Defendant did not violate any of the Rules of Professional Conduct in
effect during the period ofthe suspension;

9

(i)

Defendant did not violate any laws of the State of North Carolina or of the
United States during the period ofthe suspension; and

U)

Defendant paid all costs and fees of this proceeding as assessed by the
Secretary by the date of the filing of his petition for reinstatement.

6.
The Disciplinary Hearing Commission will retain jurisdiction of this
matter pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter I, Subchapter B, § .0114(x) of the
North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules until all conditions of the stay of
the suspension are satisfied.
,... Signed bX the Chair'llith the consent of the other Hearing Panel members, this the
--,--=-.l=-.dayof v~ ,2014.

~~,~
DOl1lIldC:Prel1
Chair, Disciplinary Hearing Panel
CONSENTED TO BY:

/

/ctfiiTf6f'A. Porter
Counsel for Plain ff

A. ayland ooke
Defendant
.

rj

Date

, cj!7j!s f/iIl2--, /~ fr

g7t1~

D:: bl / I ,(

A!t(n M. Schneider

Date'

Counsel for Defendants

10

(

