NORTH CAROLINA

B E F O E THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
0660233

WAKE COUNTY

1

EN THE MATTER OF

)

LAWRENCE S. MAITIN,
ATTORNEY AT LAW

CENSURE

-

1
1

On July 12,2007, the Grievance Committee of the North Carolina State Bar met and considered
the grievance filed against you by the NC State Bar.
Pursuant to section -0113(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina State
Bar, the Grievance Committee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the information
available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance Committee found probable
cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to believe that a member of the North
Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying disciplinary action."

The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance Committee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission are
not required and the Grievance Committee Inay issue various levels of discipline depending upon thc
misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any aggravating or mitigating factors. The
Grievance Committee may issue an admonition, a reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a reprimand, issued in cases in which
an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct and has caused
significant harm or potential significant harm to a client, the administration ofjustice, the profession or
a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Committee believes that a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chairman of the Grievance Committee of
the North Carolina State Bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure. I am certain that you will
understand hlly the spirit in which this duty is performed.

You became associated with Eric August, a nonlawyer who owned and operated a real estate
closing business known as Preferred Closing Services, Inc. The two of you worked together on a
contract basis to facilitate real estate closings. You gave August the authority to handle real estate
closings and also gave August authority to write checks against your trust account.
In the summer of 2004 you opened a new trust account with a different bank. Your previous
trust account with CCB contained the h n d s for Ms. D's real estate closing and was to be used to pay
offa mortgage. In December 2004 August took $140,000 from the CCB trust account and loaned it to
DL, a third party. You did not discover Augusts' theft until February 2006. You failed to reconcile and

close out the CCB trust account on a quarterly basis and have thus violated Rule 1 . I 5-3(c), Records and
Accountings.
In April 2005 August handled a fraudulent closing for FL and VM, in which you appeared on
the HUD statement as the closirig agent. Through his company Preferred Closing Services, Inc.,
August was successful in closing many real estate matters, including the one for FL and VM, because of
your contractual relationship. You knew from the beginning that ( I ) August was not a lawyer, (2)
August was running a business to facilitate real estate closings, ( 3 ) August was advertising the ability to
provide all services connected with real estate closings, including legal services, and (4) that August
was using your services to allow Augusts' business to practice law or offer legal services, all of which
are in violation of NCGS $84. By agreeing to be the closing agent for Augusts' clients, you assisted
August in the unauthorized practice of law in violation of Rule 5.5(d), Unauthorized Practice of Law.
You also failed to adequately supervise August and as a result August stole client money,
engaged in UPL, and facilitated a fraudulent real estate transfer. You have violated Rule 5.3(a)(b),
Responsibilities Regarding Nonlawyer Assistants.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder this censure, recognize the
error that you have made, and that you will never again allow yourself to depart from adherence to the
high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as a strong reminder and
inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to the public, your clients, your
fellow attorneys and the courts, to the end that you demean yourself as a respected member of the legal
profession whosc conduct may bc rclicd upon without question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15, 198 1 by the Council of the North Carolina
State Bar regarding the taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any attorney issued a
censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of this actioi~in the amount of $50.00 are hereby taxed
to you.

Chair
Gr vance C mmittee
The North Carolina State Bar

a
Jm
.$?
k-

