STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

IN THE MATTER OF THE TENDER
OF SURRENDER OF LICENSE OF

FORE THE COUNCIL
OF THE
H CAROLINA STATE BAR
17 BCS 2

ORDER OF DISBARMENT

CHRISTOPHER MARC O'NEAL

THIS MATTER coming on to be heard and being heard by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar pursuant to 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1, Subchapter B, § .0117(a) of the
State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules upon tender of an affidavit of surrender of license
executed by Christopher Marc O'Neal (hereinafter "O'Neal") on July 14,2017 and filed in the
offices of the North Carolina State Bar on July 18,2017.
Based upon the affidavit, the Council finds that O'Neal misappropriated entrusted funds
in violation of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct, including Rule 8.4(c).
O'Neal's conduct is grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(2).
WHEREFORE, upon motion made and duly seconded, the Council enters the following
Order:
1.

The tender of surrender of license of Christopher Marc O'Neal is hereby
accepted.

2.

O'Neal is hereby DISBARRED from the practice oflaw in North Carolina.

3.

O'Neal shall comply with the provisions of 27 N.C. Admin. Code, Chapter 1,
Subchapter B, § .0124 of the State Bar Discipline & Disability Rules. O'Neal
shall sUlTender his license and pe1Tllanent membership card to the Secretary of the
NOlth Carolina State Bar along with the affidavit required by § .0124 of the State
Bar Discipline & Disability Rules within ten (10) days after the expiration of the
wind-down period provided under § .0117(e).

4.

The administrative fees and costs of this action are taxed against O'Neal.

5.

Within 10 days of the date of this Order, O'Neal shall provide the State Bar with
an address and telephone nwnber at which clients seeking return of files can
communicate with O'Neal and obtain such tiles, and O'Neal shall promptly return
all files to his clients upon request.

6.

If O'Neal fails to fully comply with 27 N.C. Admin. Code § IB.0124, O'Neal
shall reimburse the State Bar for all expenses incurred by the State Bar in winding
down O'Neal's practice. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to,

Order of Disbmment, Christopher Marc O'Neal, 17 BCS 2

Page 1 of2

storage facility fees, rent payments, moving expenses, charges for secure disposal
of client files, postage or other mailing expenses, and compensation paid to a
cOUli-appointed tlUstee andlor the tlUstee's assistant for time and travel associated
with the tlUsteeship. The State Bar shall send an invoice of wind-down expenses
to O'Neal at O'Neal's last known address of record with the North Carolina State
Bar. O'Neal shall not be eligible for reinstatement until he has reimbursed the
State Bar for all wind-down expenses incurred.
Done and ordered this 28 th day of July, 2017.

Mark W. Merritt, President
North Carolina State Bar

Order of Disbarrnent, Christopher Marc O'Neal, 17 BCS 2

Page 2 of2

;:r~\t·fIiBI.r-,
"
U
,"'"
?
~ <\ \ . . . A

",,"

STATE OF NORTH CAROL

..:::::
'Ii?

<:ZJ ;J

<7

~
~ BEFORE THE COUNCIL

.lUI.. 20[1
.

j

FiLE."'»

C))
,0

WAKE COUNTY

?-

.

nDIHr;

'::.0

84,
OF THE
• RTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
~..
17BCS 2-

I"
0

~".'

'S

'le)'

-

4..__.... ~_,

AFFIDAVIT TENDERING THE SURRENDER OF THE LICENSE OF
CHRISTOPHER MARC O'NEAL

I, Christopher Marc O'Neal, being fIrst duly swom, say as follows:
L

I desire to resign and hereby tender my license to practice law in North Carolina
pursuant to the provisions of Section .0117 of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline
and Disability Rules, 27 N.C. Admin. Code Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Section .0117.

2.

My resignation is freely and voluntarily rendered. It is not the result of coercion or
duress. I am fully aware of the implication of submitting my resignation.

3..

I am aware that there is presently pending an investigation regarding allegations that I
misappropriated entrusted funds, misusing approximately $14,500.00 of entrusted
funds for the benefIt of myself and over $100,000.00 of entrusted funds for the
benefIt of clients who were not the benefIcial owners of those funds.

4.

I acknowledge that the material facts upon which the investigation is predicated are
true.

5.

My resignation is being submitted because I Imow that if charges were predicated
upon the misconduct under investigation, I could not successfully defend against
them.

, 6.

I understand that the hearing by the Council of the North Carolina State Bar with
regard to the acceptance of the tender of surrender of my license to practice law will
occur at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Council of the North Carolina State
Bar on Friday, July 28, 2017 at the Renaissance Hotel in Asheville, NOIth Carolina.

7.

I hereby waive any fiuther notice of the hearing before the Council on my affIdavit of
surrender. I waive any claim, argument, or assertion that I have not received proper
.or timely notice of the hearing before the Council on my affIdavit of sUl1'ender or any
other defect in notice. I futther waive any and all right or privilege to appear before
the Council at that hearing.

(CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE)

Affidavit ofSurrender, Christopher Marc O'Neal

Page 1 of2

8.

I affinn that I have had a full opp0rUmity to seek the advice and counsel of an
attorney in flling my Affidavit of Surrender Bud in waiving any rights set forth herein.

Respectfhlly submitted, this the

~ day of

Jv b

2017.

T, '"
I\
Notury Public of the Counly of ~J])uj)::Pn
Stnte of North
Carolina, certifY that Christopher Marc 0 'Neal personally appeared before me this day, was sworn, attested that dIe
foregoing Affidavit istrue and accurate of his own personal knowledge and executed the foregoing Affidavjt.

r.,

lenn'{Qf ,5.10 i0d5,

l

llffldrIV;lofSUl'l'ender, Chri.,tophe,· Marc 0 'Neal

Page 2 of2

