.6;\'\ 2',45'

le.> '

..

6'---,

STATEOFNORTHCARO~rNA
JUN?
cP
BEFORE THE
rn~CIPL~, ARY HEARING COMMISSION
j' r~j riLED DLJ
~
OF THE
IICmr
I-I
CAROLINA
STATE BAR
WAKE COUNTY';':':'
'i','" J
'
COd
.,C;;
l2DHC8

r::

'''~
"
'~?6!

" 1.;', -.
,,'

THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BA"~I
Plaintiff,
v.

CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

CHARLES M. OLDHAM III, Attorney
Defendant.

This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of C. Colon Willoughby, Jr., Chair, Harriett Smalls, and Joe Castro. Carmen H.
Bannon represented the Plaintiff. Alan M. Schneider represented the Defendant. Defendant
waives a formal hearing in the above referenced matter. The paI1ies stipulate and agree to the
findings of fact aIld conclusions of law recited in this consent order. The parties consent to the
discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of this order, Defendant knowingly,
freely aIld voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent order oi (0 challenge in any way the
sufficiency of the findings. Based on the foregoing and on the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel hereby makes by cleaI', cogent and convincing evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the N011h CaI'o1ina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina aIld is the proper party to bring this proceeding lmder the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules aIld Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.

2.
Defendant, Charles M. Oldhanl TIl, was admitted to the North CaI'olina State Bar
on 18 August 2000 aIld is an Attorney at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar aIld the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the relevant peliod refen-ed to herein, Oldhanl was actively engaged in the
practice oflaw in Matthews, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
4.
Oldham was properly served with process and received due notice of the hearing
in this matter.
5.
Debt adjusting is the "practice ... whereby any person holds himself. .. out as
acting for consideration as all internlediaI'y between a debtor and the debtor's creditors for the
pll11Jose of reducing, settling, or altering the (erms of the payment of any debt of the debtor, ...
and receives a fee or other consideration for reducing, settling, or altering the terms of the
1

payment of the debt in advance of the debt settlement having been completed or in advance of
all the services agreed to having been rendered in full." N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-423. Debt
adjusting is a Class 2 misdemeanor.
6.
An exception to the North Carolina debt adjusting statute provides that an
attorney who is 170t employed by a debt adjuster may engage in the practice described in
paragraph 5, above. N.C. Gen. Stat. § 14-426 (emphasis added).
7.
NovusDirect was a North Carolina corporation that purp011ed to offer m011gage
loan modification services to debtors who were unable to make their mortgage payments and
were in danger oflosing their homes to foreclosure.
8.
NovusDirect collected up-front fees from debtors for the promised loan
modification services. The fees ranged from $2,500.00 to $5,000.00
9.
NovusDirect employed approximately a dozen sales representatives, plus several
people designated as "negotiators" and "processors." Sales representatives received a base
salary plus commissions for each debtor "cnrolled" in the loan modification program.
10.
In February 2010, Oldham entered into a contract with NovusDirect. The contract
was entitled "Operations Agreement."
11.
The Operations Agreement provided that Oldham would receive a $150.00 flat
fee for every loan modification pertonned by NovusDirect, and NovusDirect would receive the
balance of the fee collected from the debtor.
12.
NovusDirect also provided Oldham ,vith office space in the suite where
NovusDirect operated. Oldham was not required to pay rent or utilities for this office.
13.
In exchange tor the consideration described in paragraphs 11 and 12, above,
Oldhan1 pennitted NovusDirect to operate under the auspices of The Law Offices of Charles M.
Oldham ("TLOCO").
14.
Oldhan1 authorized the owner of Nov1lSDirect to publish a website for TLOCO
that was devoted to the loan modification services offered by NovusDirect.
15.
The TLOCO website published by NovusDirect stated, among other things, "Our
finn has helped thousands of homeowners just like you to not only save their homes, but get a
monthly payment they can afford." At the time this website was published, Oldham had no
experience with loan moditication.
16.
The TLOCO website published by NovusDirect also provided testimonials
captioned "Success Stories" from individuals in Florida, Texas, Georgia, and Wisconsin. These
individuals were not, and had never been, Oldham's clients.
17.
Oldham is not, and has never been, licensed to practice law in any state other than
North Carolina.

2

18.
The TLOCO website published by NovusDirect did not explain that Oldham was
only licensed to practice law in NOlih Carolina.
19.
From Febmary through October 2010, NovusDirect d/b/a TLOCO solicited
business via targeted telemarketing based on "internet leads" purchased from a third-party
vendor. The internet leads provided contact information for individuals whose internet activity
indicated they were seeking to modifY a loan or were having trouble paying their mortgage.
(Targeted individuals who entered into a contract with TLOCO for debt modification services
are referred to hereafter as "debtor clients").
Oldham was aware that NovusDirect was soliciting professional employment
20.
from targeted individuals by telemarketing.
21.
In communicating with the targeted individuals and debtor clients, NovusDirect
employees held themselves out as part of a law firm (TLOCO) and never mentioned
NovusDirecl.
22.
Debtor clients solicited by NovusDirect signed an "Attorney/Client Engagement
Agreement" with TLOCO and were led to believe that they were receiving loan modification
services from a bonafide law firm.
23.
Debtor clients were not informed that Oldham would receive only $150.00 of the
total fee they paid to TLOCO.
24.
Oldham did not exercise the appropriate oversight regarding the operating policies
of NovusDirect nor did Oldham properly supervise its employees. He failed to exercise the
necessary degree of oversight of the bank accounts into which fees paid by debtor clients were
deposited. Oldham reviewed, but did not draft, the Engagement Agreement and other forms
used by NovusDirect d/b/a TLOCO.
25.
Notwithstanding the language in the Operations Agreement between Oldham and
NovusDirect characterizing NovusDirect as a contractor for TLOCO, Oldham was in fact an
employee ofNovusDirecl.
26.
During his employment with NovusDirect, Oldham continued to represent clients
in his usual areas of practice: criminal defense, business law, and civil litigation.
27.
Oldham relied on NovusDirect employees to provide the loan modification
"services" to, and had little contact with, debtor clients.
28.
In March 2010, Joseph Eisa, a Florida resident, hired Oldham to pursue a loan
modification by negotiating with Eisa's mortgage lender, Chase Manhattan.
29.
In August 201 0, Shawn Cauthon, a Pennsylvania resident, hired Oldham to pursue
a loan modification by negotiating with Cauthon's mOligage lender, Wells Fargo.
30.
Both Cauthon and Eisa hired Oldham by entering into a written contract entitled
"Engagement Agreement," which provided that Oldham would detennine the client's "legal

3

rights and remedies" pertaining to modification of mortgage debt, including the possibility of
"providing [the ] lender ... with a deed in lieu offoreclosure."
31.
Oldham has never been licensed to practice law in Florida, where Eisa's property
was located. It was therefore misleading for Oldham to enter into an agreement stating that he
could provide advice and/or representation to Eisa related to property in Florida and on matters
of Florida law.
32.
Oldham has never been licensed to practice law in Pennsylvania, where Cauthon's
propeliy was located. It was therefore misleading for Oldham to enter into an agreement stating
that he could provide advice and/or representation to Canthon related to property in
Pennsylvania and on matters of Pennsylvania law.
33.
In October 2010, Oldham learned that Cauthon had received a notice of
foreclosure, but he did not communicate with her about the foreclosure action.
34.
In October 2010, Oldham temlinated his partnership with NovusDireet and
assumed personal responsibility for representing the debtor clients.
Based on the foregoing Findings ofFaet and with the consent of the parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Charles Oldham Ill, and over the subject matter.
2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. § 84-28(b)(l) and N.C. Gen. Stat. § 8428(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By entering into an agreement with NovusDirect that pemlitted NovusDirect to
hold itself out as a law firm and purport to offer legal services, Defendant formed
a partnership with a non-lawyer wherein the activities of the partnership included
the practice oflaw in violation of Rule 5.4(b);
(b) By sharing with NovusDirect legal fees paid by debtor clients to TLOCO,
Defendant shared legal fees with a non-lawyer in violation of Rule 5.4(a);
(c) By authorizing the publication of a website for his law fin11 that did not indicate
his state of licensure and contained testimonials implying that he had represented
people in other states, Defendant held himself out to the public as able to practice
law in jurisdictions where he was not licensed in violation of Rule 5.5(a) and
made misleading communications about his services in violation of Rule 7.1 (a);
(d) By authorizing the publication of a website for his law tin11 that contained
"testimonials" from people who were not his clients and falsely asserted "[0 ]ur

4

finn has helped thousands of homeowners just like you," Defendant made
misleading communications about his services in violation of Rule 7.1 (a);
(e) By pem1itting NovusDirect d/b/a! TCLOCO to solicit professional employment
by live-telephone contact, Defendant violated the Rules of Professional Conduct
through the acts of another in violation of Rule 8.4(a);
(f) By pennitting NovusDirect to operate under the auspices of The Law Offices of
Charles Oldham m1d thereby misleading debtors into believing they were
receiving services from a bona fide law firm, Defenda11t assisted another in the
unauthorized practice of law (by holding itself out as a law fim1) in violation of
Rule 5.5(d) a11d engaged in conduct involving misrepresentation in violation of
Rule 8.4(c);
(g) By using a contract that stated he could provide legal advice and/or representation
in states where he was not licensed to practice law, Defenda11t held himself out as
able to practice law in jurisdictions where he was not licensed in violation of Rule
5.5(a) and made misleading communications about his services in violation of
Rule 7.I(a); and
(h) By failing to communicate with Cauthon about her foreclosure, Defendant failed
to reasonably consult with his client about the means by which the client's
objectives were to be accomplished in violation of Rule 1.4(a).

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact a11d Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
Oldham relied on representations that were made to him by NovusDirect
regarding the permissibility of Novus Direct's operations;

2.
Oldhm11 relied on representations by NovusDirect that the protocols, policies and
guidelines developed by NovusDirect were consistent with applicable law. These protocols,
policies, and guidelines included those contained within a written employee hm1dbook, prepm'ed
by NovusDirect, which NovusDirect assured Oldham would be used in training NovusDirect's
employees.
3.
NovusDirect concealed deceptive business practices from Oldham, and instructed
its employees not to reveal to Oldham that such practices were being utilized.
4.
The lom1 modification services offered by NovusDirect d/b/a TLOCO were
available free of charge from vm'ious nonprofit and governmental orgm1izations.
5.
Mm1Y of the debtor clients were induced to pay for services from NovusDirect
d/b/a TLOCO by a "money back guarantce" offered by NovusDirect employees.

5

6.
For a majority of the debtor clients, NovusDirect dfb/a TLOCO did not
successfully negotiate modification of their mOligages. Most of the debtor clients did not receive
refunds.
7.
When the deceptive conduct of NovusDirect was brought to Oldham's attention,
he acted affi1111atively to terminate his business relationship with NovusDirect.
8.
Oldham cooperated with the North Carolina Att0111ey General's investigation of
NovusDirect and with the State Bar's investigation of this matter.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the I-Iearing Panel enters the following:
CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and disbannent.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
lB §.OI14(w)(2) and concludes no factors are present that would wan·ant disbarment.
3.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B § .OI14(w)(I) and (3) and determines the following factors are applicahle:
(a) Negative impact of Defendant's actions on public's perception of the profession;
(b) Absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(c) Multiple offenses;

(d) Cooperative attitude toward the proceedings; and
(e) Remorse;
4.
The Hearing Panel finds that a censure, reprimand, or admonition would be
insufficient discipline because of the significant harm to the debtor clients and potential
significant harm to the legal profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
5.
The Hearing Panel finds that although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to
warrant more discipline than a censure, it does not warrant an active suspension of his license.
6.
The Hearing Panel finds that a stayed suspension of Defendant's law license is
wan-anted insofar as entry of an order imposing less severe discipline would fail to aclmowledge
the seriousness of the misconduct and would send the wrong message to att0111eys and the public
about the conduct expected of members of the Bar of this State.

6

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclnsions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.
The law license of Defendant, Charles M. Oldham III, is hereby suspended for
two years effective from the date this Order of Discipline is served upon him. The period of
suspension is stayed for two years as long as Defendant complies and continues to comply with
the following conditions:
(a) During the period of the stay. Defendant shall take an additional three hours of
accredited ethics CLE each year. over and above the standard annual requirements
for CLE;
(b) Defendant shall not violate the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local govemment during his suspension;
(c) Defendant shall keep the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department
advised of his current business and home addresses and shall notify the Bar of any
change in address within ten days of such change;
(d) Defendant shall respond to all conllmmications from the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications from the Attomey Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and shall participate in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he receives notice after the effective date of this
Order;
(e) Defendant shall promptly accept service of all certified mail from the State Bar
that is sent to him; and
(f) Defendant shall timely comply with all State Bar membership and Continuing
Legal Education requirements.

2.
If Defendant fails to comply with any of the conditions of the stayed suspension
provided in pamgraph I(a) - (f) above, the stay of the suspension may be lifted as provided in §
.OI14(x) of the North Carolina State Bar Discipline and Disability Rules.
3.
If the stay granted herein is lifted or the suspension of Defendant's license is
activated for any reason. before seeking reinstatement of his license to practice law. Defendant
must show by clear. cogent and convincing evidence that he has complied with each of the
following conditions:
(a) Defendant submitted his license and membership card to the Secretary of the
North Cm-olina State Bar within thiJiy days after the date of the order lifting the
stay andlor activating the suspension of his law license;

7

(b) Defendant complied with all provisions of 27 N.C.A.C. lB § .0124 following the
order lifting the stay and/or activating the suspension of his law license;
(c) Defendant kept the North Carolina State Bar Membership Department advised of
his clll'rent business and home addresses and notified the Bar of any change in
address within ten days of such change;
(d) Defendant responded to aU commLl11ications fiom the North Carolina State Bar,
including communications fi'om the Attorney Client Assistance Program, within
thirty days of receipt or by the deadline stated in the communication, whichever is
sooner, and participated in good faith in the State Bar's fee dispute resolution
process for any petition of which he received notice after the effective date of this
Order;
(e) Defendant promptly accepted aU certified mail sent to him by the State Bar;

(1) That at the time of his petition for stay, Defendant is current in payment of aU
Membership dues, fees and costs, including all Client Seclll'ity Fund assessments
and other charges or smcharges the State Bar is authorized to coUect fi'om him, as
well as all judicial district dues, fees and assessments;
(g) That at the time of his petition for stay, there is no deficit in Defendant's
completion of mandatory CLE homs, in reporting of sLlch homs, or in payment of
any fees associated with attendance at CLE progran1s;
(h) Defendant has completed an additional three homs of accredited ethics CLE each
year, over and above the standard annual requirements for CLE, dming the period
of suspension;
(i) Defendant has not violated the Rules of Professional Conduct or the laws of the
United States or of any state or local government during his suspension;

CD

Defendant has paid the administrative fees and costs of this proceeding as
reflected on the statement of costs served upon him by the Secretary of the State
Bar; and

(k) Defendant has complied with any other conditions deemed necessary for
reinstatement imposed by the Hearing Panel plll'suant to the order lifting the stay
oftl1e suspension of Dcfendant's law license.
4.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs of this action as assessed
by the Secretary, which Defendant shaU pay within thirty days of service of the notice of costs
upon the Defendant.

8

Signed by the nndersigned Chair with the Imowledge and consent of the other members
of the Hearing Panel, this is the ~l day of
f{/&lvf
,2012.

,

C. Colon Willoughby,
Hearing Panel

CONSENTED TO BY:

~if·Gt~
Carmen H. Bannon
Attorneyfor Plaintiff

Charles M. Oldham, III
Defendant

9

