BEFORE THE

STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

WAKE COUNTY

Plaintiff,
CONSENT ORDER OF DISCIPLINE

v.

CURTIS C. OSBORNE, Attomey
Defendant.

This matter came before a hearing panel of the Disciplinary Hearing Commission
composed of Joshua W. Willey, Jr., Chair, Harriett Smalls, and Scott A. Sutton. Carmen H.
Bannon represented Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar. Defendant, Curtis C. Osbome, was
represented by Alan M. Schneider. Defendant waives a formal hearing in this matter. The
parties stipulate and agree to the findings of fact and conclusions of law recited in this consent
order. The parties consent to the discipline imposed by this order. By consenting to the entry of
this order, Defendant knowingly, freely and voluntarily waives his right to appeal this consent
order or to challenge in any way the sufficiency of the findings. Based on the foregoing and on
the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel hereby makes by clear, cogent and convincing
evidence the following:
FINDINGS OF FACT
1.
Plaintiff, the North Carolina State Bar, is a body duly organized under the laws of
North Carolina and is the proper party to bring this proceeding under the authority granted it in
Chapter 84 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, and the Rules and Regulations of the
North Carolina State Bar promulgated thereunder.
2.
Defendant, Curtis C. Osbome, was admitted to the North Carolina State Bar in
August 1998 and is an Attomey at Law subject to the rules, regulations, and Rules of
Professional Conduct of the North Carolina State Bar and the laws of the State of North
Carolina.
3.
During the relevant period referred to herein, Osbome was actively engaged in the
practice of law in Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
4.
In March 2009, Lelys Mancia and Roberto Alfaro, consulted with Osborne about
potential representation in a personal injury case related to a February 2009 auto accident.
Mancia was married to Alfaro's cousin. At the time of the accident, Alfaro had been a
passenger in Mancia's car, which was struck by another vehicle. (The driver of the vehicle that
struck Mancia's car is referred to hereafter as "the other driver").

I

5.
Osborne agreed to represent both Mancia and Alfaro, but failed to obtain their
infonned consent, confirmed in writing, to the potential conflict of interest inherent in the joint
representation of a driver and passenger under these circumstances.
6.
Mancia and Alfaro together met with Osborne at his office on several occasions,
and Osborne sent demand letters to the other driver's insurance company on behalf of Mancia
and Alfaro.
7.
Sometime after Osborne detennined that Mancia was likely partially at fault,
barring Mancia from any legal recovery, Osborne withdrew from representing Mancia. When it
was determined that a suit had to be filed on behalf of Alfaro, Osborne met with Mancia and
Alfaro and explained that the suit could include Mancia as a defendant.
8.
Osborne did not obtain from either Mancia or Alfaro infonned consent confirmed
in writing to the conflict of interest inherent in representing a client whose interests were
materially adverse to the interests of a former client in the same matter in which the lawyer
previously represented the former client.
9.
In October 2010, Osborne filed a complaint on behalf of Alfaro alleging that
Mancia and the other driver were jointly and severally liable for damages incuned by Alfaro in
the accident. (Alfaro v. Chavis & Mancia, Mecklenburg County file no. 10-CVS-22097).
10.
In June 2011, the defendants in Alfaro v. Chavis & Mancia conducted a
deposition of Alfaro. During the deposition, Osborne interrupted the questioning, and
interjected speaking objections that had the effect of coaching his client's responses.
11.
During the deposition, Mancia's counsel asked Alfaro about the conversations
that took place when Mancia and Alfaro met together with Osborne. Osborne instructed Alfaro
not to answer those questions on the grounds that the communications were protected by the
attorney-client privilege.
12.
Defense counsel renewed her request for information about conversations
amongst Osborne, Alfaro, and Mancia after the deposition and prior to filing a motion to
compel. In response, Osborne continued to object on the basis of the attorney client privilege
and he did not provide the requested information.
13.
Comment 30 to Rule 1.7 of the North Carolina Rules of Professional Conduct
provides that-as between commonly represented clients-the attorney-client privilege does not
attach and does not protect communications from disclosure if the clients later become adverse
parties.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and with the consent ofthe parties, the Hearing
Panel makes the following:
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
1.
All parties are properly before the Hearing Panel and the Panel has jurisdiction
over Defendant, Curtis C. Osborne, and over the subject matter.
2

2.
Defendant's conduct, as set forth in the Findings of Fact above, constitutes
grounds for discipline pursuant to N.C. Gen. Stat. ยง 84-28(b)(2) in that Defendant violated the
Rules of Professional Conduct as follows:
(a) By agreeing to jointly represent Mancia and Alfaro without obtaining their
infonned consent confirmed in writing to the potential conflict of interest inherent
in the joint representation, Osborne undertook a representation that potentially
could have been materially limited by his responsibilities to another client in
violation of Rule 1.7(a);
(b) By representing Alfaro in a lawsuit against Mancia regarding the same matter in
which he formerly represented both Alfaro and Mancia, without obtaining
Mancia's informed consent confirmed in writing, Osborne represented a client
whose interests were materially adverse to the interests of a former client in
violation of Rule 1.9(a);
(c) By inten'upting the questioning and interjecting inappropriate speaking objections
during Alfaro's deposition, Osborne engaged in conduct intended to disrupt the
proceeding in violation of Rule 3.5(a)(4); and
(d) By asserting the attorney-client privilege as a basis for refusing to provide
information about the communications that occurred when Alfaro and Mancia
were jointly represented, Osborne failed to disclose information that he
reasonably should have lmown was subject to disclosure in violation of Rule
3.4(d)(3).
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and the consent of the
parties, the Hearing Panel makes the following:
FINDINGS REGARDING DISCIPLINE
1.
When Osborne ceased representing Mancia and filed suit against him on Alfaro's
behalf, Mancia's insurance company had to retain counsel to defend him in the lawsuit.
2.
After the presiding judge at the hearing on defense counsel's motion to compel
raised the issue of a conflict of interest inherent in his representation of Alfaro against Mancia,
Osborne voluntarily dismissed Alfaro's case without prejudice after consulting with Alfaro and
assisted Alfaro in locating new counsel to re-file his claim. The fact that Alfaro had to seek
other counsel and re-file his claim delayed the resolution of his case
3.

Osborne has no prior disciplinary record.

4.
Osborne has been cooperative throughout the investigation of this matter and the
pendency of this case, and is remorseful about his conduct.
Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties, the Hearing Panel enters the following:

3

CONCLUSIONS REGARDING DISCIPLINE

1.

The Hearing Panel has carefully considered all of the different forms of discipline
available to it, including admonition, reprimand, censure, suspension and disbarment.
2.
The Hearing Panel has considered all of the factors enumerated in 27 N.C.A.C.
1B ยง .OI14(w) and determined the following factors are applicable:
(a) negative impact of the defendant's actions on the administration of justice;
(b) impairment of the client's ability to achieve the goals of the representation, in that
the resolution of the case was delayed;
(c) absence of prior disciplinary offenses;
(d) cooperative attitude toward the proceedings; and
(e) remorse.
3.
An admonition or reprimand would be insufficient discipline because of the
significant harm or potential harm to clients and the profession caused by Defendant's conduct.
4.
Although Defendant's conduct is serious enough to warrant more discipline than a
reprimand, it does not warrant the suspension of his license.

5.

The public will be adequately protected by the imposition of a censure.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Findings of Fact
Regarding Discipline, Conclusions of Law Regarding Discipline, and the consent of the parties,
the Hearing Panel hereby enters the following:
ORDER OF DISCIPLINE
I.

Defendant, Curtis C. Osborne, is hereby censured.

2.
Defendant is taxed with the administrative fees and costs ofthis action as assessed
by the Secretary, which Defendant shall pay within thirty days of service of the notice of costs
upon Defendant.
Signed by the undersigneQ5~air with the knowledge and consent of the other members
of the Hearing Panel, this is the
day of November
3.

L

y, Jr., Chair

4

Cannen H. Bannon
Attorney for Plaintiff

Attorney for Defendant

5

