NORTH CAROLINA

BEFORE THE
GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA STATE BAR
99G0477

WAKE COUNTY

IN RE: DOUGLAS F. OSBORNE, JR.
ATTORNEY AT LAW

)
)
)

CENSURE

On January 20,2000 the Grievance Conunittee of the North Carolina State Bar met and
considered the grievances filed against you by Thelbert Hylton.
Pursuant to Section .01 13(a) of the Discipline and Disability Rules of the North Carolina
State Bar, the Grievance C0111ll1ittee conducted a preliminary hearing. After considering the
infornlation available to it, including your response to the letter of notice, the Grievance
Committee found probable cause. Probable cause is defined in the rules as "reasonable cause to
believe that a member ofthe North Carolina State Bar is guilty of misconduct justifying
disciplinary action."
The rules provide that after a finding of probable cause, the Grievance ConU11ittee may
determine that the filing of a complaint and a hearing before the Disciplinary Hearing
Commission are not warranted and the Grievance Committee may issue various levels of
discipline depending upon the misconduct, the actual or potential injury caused, and any
aggravating or mitigating factors. The Grievance Conunittee may issue an admonition, a
reprimand, or a censure.
A censure is a written form of discipline more serious than a Reprimand, issued in cases
in which an attorney has violated one or more provisions of the Rules of Professional Conduct
and has caused significant harm or potential significant hann to a client, the administration of
justice, the profession or a member of the public, but the misconduct does not require suspension
of the attorney's license.
The Grievance Conunittee was of the opinion that a hearing before the Disciplinary
Hearing Commission is not required in this case and issues this censure to you. As chainnan of
the Grievance COimnittee of the North Carolina State bar, it is now my duty to issue this censure.
I anl certain that you will understand fully the spirit in which this duty is perfonned.
On August 18, 1998, you were appointed to represent the Complainant, Thelbert Hylton,
in an appeal of the denial of his Motion for Appropriate Relief.

You failed to perfect Mr. Hylton's appeal in a timely manner. Your failure to handle Mr.
Hylton's appeal violated Rule 1.3 and Rule 8.4(d) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct
of the North Carolina State Bar.
In addition, the North Carolina State Bar sent you a Letter of Notice advising you ofMr.
Hylton's grievance in tins matter. You did not respond promptly to Mr. Hylton's grievance,
which is a violation of Rule 8.I(b) of the Revised Rules of Professional Conduct.
On October 26, 1999, State Bar counsel requested additional information from you
regarding this grievance. You were asked to respond to counsel's letter by November 30, 1999.
You did not respond to counsel's letter and failed to cooperate with the State Bar Grievance
Committee. Your conduct in this regard violated Rule 8.I(b) of the Revised Rules of
Professional Conduct.
You are hereby censured by the North Carolina State Bar for your violation oftlle Rules
of Professional Conduct. The Grievance Committee trusts that you will ponder tllis censure,
recognize the error tllat you have made, and tlmt you will never again allow yourself to depart
from adherence to tlle high ethical standards of the legal profession. This censure should serve as
a strong reminder and inducement for you to weigh carefully in the future your responsibility to
the public, your clients, your fellow attorneys and the courts, to tlle end tlmt you demean yourself
as a respected member of the legal profession whose conduct may be relied upon without
question.
In accordance with the policy adopted October 15,1981 by the Council of the North
Carolina State Bar regarding tlle taxing of the administrative and investigative costs to any
attorney issued a censure by the Grievance Committee, the costs of tlns action in the amount of
$50.00 are hereby taxed to you.
Done and ordered, tllis the

15' day of

~

e;"(:j

m K. Dorsett III, ChaIr
Grievallce Committee

JKD/tec

, 2000.

